It's Math Hoffa the jab proper
He throwin' like Iron Mike, I'm draggin' around a Llama like Napoleon Dynamite
Shotgun pellets, a pump loaded with Mike & Ike
No aim, I spray it like a nose in a firefight
They offered Math or Big T, that's a funny question
Neither one of them is battles I be double guessin'
I left it up to Big Kannon, told him, "Cut the check in"
They gave me Math over T  like a study session
It's just me and the piece  I don't meditate
Bust his head to the white meat, that's how I segregate
I got a mean gun butt that'll set him straight
Right across the forehead like Kevin Gates
You ain't been nice since the Verb clash
And these hands do numbers I learned Math
You need to come to terms fast that your turn passed
You washed up, let that sink in, take a bird bath
I murk past dumpin' the ratchet
20 minutes your whole block covered in plastic
I do Math dirty, come get ya ass kicked
Get body bagged with a 30, I ain't come for a classic
I lift the Smith and dent his shit in with a pistol whippin'
Crack his teeth, he taste the blood when it get to drippin'
Stick the pick in, twist it, give him a 100 quick incisions
So if he don't want the 30 I get a split decision
Fuck Math, I'm ridin' wit it like a bus pass
Your turtle wax ya baldie and dye your mustache
I spit three 16's and it'll crush glass
This bag got me itchin' like cut grass
You used to be real but now you gettin' fake
So I'ma take the boy bands then i'm finna skate
Get stomped or eat bullets, pick ya fate
I'ma let you choose Justin, Timb' or lake 
If he in the buildin' I came to renovate
Pop his top then air it out, I let it ventilate
It ain't a problem puttin' Math on a wall, don't make me demonstrate
Chest shot, shit'll split a plate like a dinner date
I eliminate, hit a face, crack a nose
Close range with the MAC, make his hat explode
And drag his ass from the projects through gravel road
Feelin' froggy you get the boot like Battle Toads
I dance with the devil, I done ran with the wolves
I punch a hole through a sheep and get a handful of wool
You used to be a legend, rappin' 'bout the hammers you pull
And then you fell off harder than a mechanical bull
That's cause you ain't no star like that
Snitches get stitches that's prolly how you got a scar like that
Fuck ya six slogans, them shits ain't hard like that
You just cheatin' the fans outta hearin' new bars like that
Right now K is like, "Finally...
First of all, you look like you belong on Duck Dynasty
Free Bump J
Shout out my Chi niggas that ride wit me
But let me talk to these fans who judge biasly
I don't understand how y'all treat certain rappers like god
I feel like Superman in jail, I just laugh at they bars
I don't know if it's they swag, or how they pass they facade
These niggas rappin' 'bout murders, they all actors and frauds
It can't be the bars
I told Arsonal, "You get the cans like tuna fish"
Niggas went crazy, I thought that was lame, so I redo the shit
I said, "You get the cans like Cam' had to do to Mitch
But instead of takin' bricks from you I'ma take you from the Bricks"
To me that's hard but nobody reacted
"The Bricks" is a term for Jers', Paid In Full was a classic
So when I go to write some ill shit sometimes I retract it
Cause I don't know if half you motherfuckers will catch it
And it's tragic
It's supposed to be a classic?
I'll bury K, I'm scary
I got to many guns, they could vary K
If I miss him with the nine, through the window while he stare away
The MAC will ring and make up on his door like Mary K
Body shit!
I hold a chopper steady like Poligrip
Creep up, Shhh, before the murder on some Bobby shit
You writin' love letters to ya bitch on some "sorry" tip
BOOM! Now you got a ghost writer on some Tsunami shit
Now K gon' say some shit
If he throw me facts, don't react
Cause after this is done, he givin' pounds that shit only rap
I swear I got these rounds in a bag; pepperoni pack
Dumpin' at the side of his house that's a smoky gat
You in the trap? You gettin' money? Nigga not today
I dress up like a fiend and walk up like I'ma got an eighth
Shakin', he like, "This man hooked." Then he get Dr. J'd
Wake up missin' drugs in the stack like Far Rockaway
Rest In Peace
I be stressed til I address the beef
TEC flurry, Steph' Curry, it's the best release
I'll body ya moms, stretch ya niece, even ya ex deceased
They like, "Damn, why you blew  his ex, man ?"
Nigga just a Beast!
What's up nigga?
You got punches? I got punches, so what you sayin' bitch?
You throwin' randoms tryin' to lay a hit
And I'ma Money May' your shit
Like I'ma lose to a nigga who hit the lake and fish
Look Taylor Swift
I can take this off the hook, fuck the bait and shit
But you know what? I fuck wit you K even though I know you a plagiarist
Cause every time you rap all I ever hear is Jadakiss
Yeah you throw punches, but your flow? God damn that's the same as shit
So take his dick out ya mouth while I quote one of my favorites
"For all you new rappers for the thousandth time
I don't recall hittin' ya moms or writin' ya rhymes
And even though you might've seen me in and out of her house
There's no way she could have a baby white as a mouse"
Hoffa
Aye look, you ate Bonnie Godiva's ass? That ain't honorary
You need to give your life to god and hit the monastery
Smokin' blunts with Math? That's all kinds of scary
Fuck groceries, that's eatin' the booty like commessary
I said yo, it's Math Hoffa the ass gobbler
He finna spaz out, he suck a fart out ya butt hole and spit it back out
How ya lick the doo doo maker til you pass out?
Then go to the crib and kiss the kids wit that mouth
Shit stains on ya tongue like "hold these youngin"
I flew all the way to the Chi I'm 'bout to Cochise somethin'
He don't even want the pussy he get no cheeks from 'em
Just put the crack in his mouth like the police comin'
I've been in the mix, give me a semi to grip
Thought I was breakin' down roaches, I empty the clip
You can't hit my bottle, I won't give you a sip
Cause that shit on yo' lip really got shit on its lip
Don't crack a smile we isn't friends
You bring a whole new meaning to a "shit eating grin"
And if Math get bodied we won't see him again
Aaron Hernandez I'm MVP with the pen
Day a liar, my whole city know K a rider
And you don't want no smoke like a vaporizer
Now you 'bout to get burnt for tryin' to play with fire
Your soul's  on the line it ain't sneakers on the cable wire
When the gunnin' I ain't runnin', I stood still dumpin'
I been everywhere from the hood to the foothills pumpin'
You rap like it, but I don't think he would kill nothin'
I'm trashin' Math like the janitor in Good Will Hunting
A clean sweep, I don't toot my horn but beep beep
Two guns, Bang Bang I'm Chief Keef
If I'm not a relief then you gotta be sleep
I'm tryin' to bring the game back and I ain't got a receipt
He weak, the fans hate you Math
I only booked this battle so I can say you trash
A dropout with no class, that's how they grade you Math
So of course I don't get credit for when I take you Math
But the weapon in the Tahoe, he fled then I'ma follow
L.O.M. clothing, step into a Hollow
Sayin' he would touch me, I must be next at the Apollo
Cause Math washed up, that's a message in a bottle
You the lamest in history, I came for the victory
Bird it's a stickup, you gettin' flamed in rotisserie
Big man on campus, nothin' he's gon say that's gon get to me
I'm in the buildin' droppin' 30 on Math like I'm payin' tuition fees
I know you sick Math flips, damn it I feel ya
You take ya hat off you look like Anderson Silva
And now you face to face with a man that'll kill ya
But wait til that third round I got a plan to reveal ya
Yo shut the fuck up!
These niggas hype cause you talk so tough
But I be like, "Look at Slim Jesus. All grown up."
If K wanna be a boss he get that Marlo cut
And if you duck I keep cuttin' til he cornrowed up
Now JC said I'ma lose cause he the dim witted kind
My punches go over heads of a simpleton's mind
I'ma turn K to Bubba Sparxxx but y'all should think and rewind
Cause first I'ma drop him then he get the Timberland  sign
I got this baby nine though, can't front it's kinda tiny size
But damn, it ain't miss a Violator since Lighty died
I still got that ox, I give niggas the grimy side
The scar healin' bubble like an Air Max '95
Tell Drago he can't drop ole Rocko
That rock gon' pop, I watch yo' top go taco, that's a pothole
Compared to when that shotgun cocked though
That hole look like the Vatos came and got El Chapo
You hustle dope? You hustlin' dope, right?
What you got? The keys or the grams?
I'm tryin' to cop, we gon' rob him, he don't see it's a scam
I'm like, "Let's meet. I'm at Virginia Beach with my man."
He leave the block, my son burn him then I leave with a tan
And he don't understand
I changed my name to Juice, niggas askin' what that mean
That means I'm fuckin' sick and tired of Math schemes
They all say the same shit against the god; blasphem'
Well take your shot, my shot's secure like a vaccine
Y'all like when niggas spit bars? Or y'all like when they yell and they act mean?
I spit for those that like to figure out what the rap mean
I don't know where to land doe  so I throw 'em tag teams
It's a harder way  to score but my setups are Shaq screens
It's Magic
You don't catch it when I pass it? Just think quick
You Charlie Sheen, just came on the scene, I've been sick
I came here to make a statement, all you haters can drink dick
I'm leavin' Kenneth cold  leave his soul  like a wing tip
You can't give a nigga props for some shit that he don't have
I'm a nigga with an attitude, you straight outta Locash
A chick said he top 5 but his performance is so trash
That's like puttin' a whistle in a purse and tryin' to call it a Coach bag
What would battle rap be if it wasn't for me?
How the fuck could you eat if it wasn't for me?
Your whole image say Smack, you got your buzz from a league
That started on my back salute your OG nigga
I said I figured this one time I got to give you somethin'
I'd rather spit them punchlines that have the venue jumpin'
What you gon' try to "real" me to death? Bitch you frontin'
Stop actin' like you the only one that been through somethin'
This world is fucked up, that's sad but it's true
What goes around comes around we get back what we do
You got famous for snuffin' Dose not raps with the crew
And that was real fuckin' funny til it happened to you
But you blame everybody else like, "Ayo BB. get my lawyer on the line. They owe me G's
Who Clips and ICE ain't help? They gon' see me
You put the smack in Smack then the knocked out in KOTD
And the way you been actin' had everything to do with these rhymes
I ain't no nothin' 'bout nothin' and I'm cool with each side
But when that footage hit the web all I could do is rewind
If you ain't want him to duff you, you shouldn't have told him to do three times
I wasn't even in the buildin', I couldn't bounce to save ya
I was walkin' Venice Beach with an ounce of flava
When it popped off, I ain't find out til later
That they was in there ringin' Math buttons like a calculator
So look, at this point in life just be happy you exist
You got snuffed, so what? Now stop actin' like a bitch
Cause ever since that happened our conversations gettin' hella short
It's like he mad at me cause I didn't teleport
You askin' me to pick sides, sucka relax
I don't know if they set you up or planned to jump you like that
I'm supposed to stop battlin' over there when they comin' with racks?
When URL did me dirty did you stop fuckin' with Smack?
Nah, cause that how Brooklyn do
Now every time I look at you I see the face you made before Dizaster start hookin' you
The same face you was makin' when Calicoe was cookin' you
And that hard head won't be nothin' to put a bullet through
You think you bigger than battle rap, that's how I know you corny
If it wasn't for battle rap, I wouldn't know your story
That's why you popped your hubcaps on the road to glory
And you plottin' a comeback when you close to 40
Nah, fuck that shit, I'm the wrong person to try to get a buzz back wit
In the crib loadin' the yopper like I love that bitch
Fillin' the Tommy on the carpet like a Rugrats flick and let it rip
I'm certified don't be playin' wit me
This is more than meets the eye or what you able to see
So next time don't say it to Twitter, say it to me
And be that stand up gangsta that you claimin' to be
But you not cause you at home wit ya bitch watchin' soap operas
I'm uptown negotiating with the coke shoppers
MAC-10's, SK's, both choppers
Right hooks, left hooks, what's that?
I don't know what the fuck he talkin' 'bout I can't front
You said you was on Venice Beach or some shit, you a goddamn punk
Cause you was in the buildin' but I ain't gotta worry what this nigga gon' do
Cause everybody know that White boys Can't Jump
Man fuck this nigga
But I got a question K, I got a question
How you white and black at the same time?
This nigga so black his wife told him that she was pregnant and he responded, "It ain't mine."
You got that Jadakiss flow, with your fitted low with some great lines
It's funny that we don't notice DNA the way that K-Shine
But for me it's different, cause I got this memory in my head and it just won't escape mine
Cop put his gun in my face when I was like, eight-nine
Years old, he was bold he did that shit in the daytime
But the illest shit about it, is you got his face, slime
Ever since that day I ain't look at the world with the same mind
I was criminalized, taught to fuck the law and embrace crime
That's ill, right? Cause what I'm spittin' is real life
So how can you relate to me if you don't know what that feels like?
90% of this crowd know what that feels like
The cops roll up you feel freight
Then you remember, "Huh. I'm still white."
So how's a crook from the Brook' gonna fear ya
I'll bring you to my world, yo' ass would be shook like Shakira
But you trappin', right? Aight, you pushin' I hear ya
But the only bird you ever seen is when you look in the mirror
Fuck you talkin' 'bout nigga? You don't know what it's like
Huggin' the block like when you hold on your wife
When it's lonely at night
Moms preachin', tryin' to show you the light
Cause you went cookin' and find the bundles in the bowl with the rice
AK behind the dresser, deuce goin' to school
You'se a fool, you prolly think thuggin' is cool
No it's the rules
When you grow up with a government screwed
You got options, die in a robbery or tuck in your jewels
My nigga let me ask you
You ever seen your man's brains in the street and curse that day cause you ain't have your stainless in reach?
I've been through all types of shit, but now my aim is to teach
I'm such a stand up nigga sometimes I pray on my feet
I play that Brooklyn role, niggas wish that Hell would cook my soul
Cause when they bring my name up, they start pointin' at bullet holes
Be lucky I chose rap cause the other path I could've chose
Will put your body in a state where your body bag wouldn't close
Nigga, you don't got bars like this
Look at my face, look at my knuckles, you don't got scars like this
You got punches, but you ain't makin' Worldstar like this
Come see my next battle in London I'ma talk that shit
Hoffa