Elsa: You’ve never had a real birthday before
Except, of course, the ones just spent outside my locked door
So I’m here way too late to help you celebrate
And be your birthday date if I may...Achoo!
Anna: Elsa, I’m thinking you might have a cold
Elsa: I don’t get colds. Besides...
A cold never bothered me anyway
Just follow the string!
I’ve got big plans, I’ve got surprises for today
Nothing but nothing’s gonna get in our way
I’ve worked for weeks, planned everything within my power
I even got Kristoff and Sven to take a shower
If someone wants to hold me back
I’d like to see them try
I’m on the birthday plan attack
I’m giving you the sun, the moon, and the sky
I’m making today a perfect day for you
I’m making today a blast if it’s the last thing I do
For everything you are to me and all you’ve been through
I’m making today a perfect day for you
Achoo! Achoo!
Anna: They come in threes!
Elsa: I’m fine...achoo!
Surprise, surprise this one especially...achoo!
Anna: Wow! You’ve got me reeling, but I’m still concerned for you
I think it’s time that you go home and get some rest
Elsa: We are not stopping cause the next one is the best...ah...achoo!
Anna: Elsa, you gotta go lie down
Elsa: No way, we have to paint the town
Anna: But you need medical attention
Oaken: Are you sick? How ‘bout a cold remedy
Of my own invention
Elsa: No thanks
Anna: We’ll take it
Choir: We’re making today a perfect day for you
Elsa: Making today a special day
Choir: We’re singing a birthday song to make your wishes come true
Elsa: Wishes come true
Choir: We love Princess Anna
Elsa: And I love you too
Choir: So we’re making today a perfect day...in every way
Yes we are making today a perfect day
Elsa: Come on! Now we climb!
Anna: Elsa that’s too much. You need to rest!
Elsa: No...we need to get to our birthday chills...I mean thrills!
Making dreams
Making plans
Go go go go!
Follow the string to the end
You are my very best friend
Anna: Elsa?!
Elsa: What? I’m fine
We’re gonna climb
We’re gonna sing
Follow the string
To the thing
Happy happy happy
Merry merry merry
Hap...birth...hap...birthday!
Anna: Woah! Elsa, look at you. You’ve got a fever. You’re burning up!
All right, we can’t go on like this
Let’s put this day on hold
Come on, admit it to yourself
Elsa: Okay...
I have a cold
I’m sorry Anna. I just wanted to give you one perfect birthday, but I ruined it. Again
Anna: You didn’t ruin anything. Let’s just get you to bed
Everyone: Surprise!
Anna: Wow!
Elsa: Wow...
Choir: We’re making today a perfect day for you
We’re making today a smiley face all shiny and new
Kristoff: There’s a fine line between chaos
Olaf: And a hullabaloo
Choir: So we’re making today a perfect day
We’re making today a perfect day
A! N! N! A!
We’re making today a perfect day for you
Kristoff: Happy birthday
Choir: Making today a happy day and no feeling blue
Kristoff: I love you baby!
Choir: For everything you are to us
And all that you do
Kristoff: I do
Choir: We’re making today a perfect day
Making today a perfect day
We’re making today a perfect day
Elsa: Perfect day
Anna: Okay, to bed with you
Elsa: No, wait! Wait! All that’s left to do is for the queen to blow the birthday bugle horn!
Anna: Oh, no no no no no no no...
Elsa: ACHOO!
Anna: Best birthday present ever
Elsa: Which one?
Anna: You letting me take care of you
Elsa: Achoo!