"Watch out now!"
Yea, yea.. uh-uh!
Mm-mmm!
Get money, get money!
 Uh-uh!
 GET MONEY, GET MONEY 
 GET MONEY, GET MONEY
Yeah, GET MONEY, GET MONEY
"Listen to the first verse"
"Watch out now!"
Aiyyo my song's on, I gotta get my grub on some to-to
 Order three buckets of Mo'-Mo'
We gettin' more dough, off the books 
Pullin more hoes off the looks 
You wan' hate me? Cause your wifey, wants a autograph?
From the look in her eyes, I can see she wants more than that
When I see fat asses I make fat passes like quarterback
Beatnuts is ALLA THAT, your shit, ALL THE WACK
Open can-dela, if you foolin' wit my cheddah
Hardrock, ever since, junior high escuela
Fly fella, takin my beats, to make your crowd get up
I'm fed up, niggas wanna bring it -- WHATEVER!
I'mma storm your pa-rade  blow your legs off
With a gre-nade, now you flappin', like a mermaid
Yappin off, bitch you cough at the lips
While I'm at the bar, baggin', the bartender tips
Then I bag this chick, with a, "Hi," and the eye
She did the butterfly, rubbin' her ass, against my buttonfly
I could already imagine my shit stuck inside
Everytime I strike, haters be like, "Dat fucking guy!"
How's that yo? It's hard for you to swallow
It don't take much for us to let the metal holla
Lead's bustin out of a old black Impala
Thug nigga only fuck wit, muchacha malla
Big Ju, dimelo el coño, how we do?, how we do? 
Whatchu gonna do? 
Nigga whatchu gonna do? 
Here's to my pollyin' niggas who campaign
To the killers who be lovin' the chicas and champagne
Thugs who get wild in the club and snatch chains
Players who be pimpin' the hoes with no brains
Front watch a nigga get shot from close range
The most range, crazy motherfucker won't change
Beatnuts, forever diehard, you want pain?
Cause you walkin' outta here breathin' is insane
Flip a beat fast, you leave the club with a heat rash
You got a weak stash, came in the club with a free pass
I ain't even know they made a Roley for your cheap ass
Makin me laugh, you was in jail wearin' kneepads
Now the beef has gotten over your head
It's over you dead, Ranger Rover, both of your legs
Till both of us said, platinum gettin' took this year
Cause for real, there ain't nothin' but crooks in here, nigga
How's that yo? It's hard for you to swallow
It don't take much for us to let the metal holla
Lead's bustin out of a old black Impala
Thug nigga only fuck wit, muchacha malla
Big Ju, dimelo el coño, how we do?, how we do? 
Whatchu gonna do? 
Whatcha gon' do when Beatnuts come through baby!
 Psycho Les
 Big Ju
 Beatnuts
 Throw your hands up, throw your hands up
 Throw your hands up, throw your hands up..