Our Little Universe by 6arrett
Our Little Universe
1. Down in the Ocean: Part 1
2. Down in the Ocean: Part 2
3. Down In The Ocean...Up In The Stars 4. Universe Sanctuary
5. Stars Light Star
6. 666 ✝ 666
7. Space Rip
"this book belongs to the most rare of men. Perhaps not one of them is yet alive. First the day after tomorrow must come for me. Some men are born posthumously." F.N.
Down In The Ocean: Part 1
Walking on the sand they could feel thе hot, sun- kissed spectacles of sand stabbing thеir feet. Amplified by the sun's еnergy after taking off their footwеar, the four friends hurried to grab a spot closest to the water. "Let's get in!", the youngest said as he removed his shirt and ran to the water. The other three joined him and felt the icy cold seawater as they submerged their feet lightly in the
water. "On three", the eldest said as he grabbed the other two girls' hands and one of the girls grabbed the youngest boys' hand. "One...two...three!" they shouted, and found them falling down into the blue deep.
Down in the ocean they fell, passing families of fish and monsters that lived in the different levels of watery hell. As they fell deeper, the sunlight began to slowly disappear until there was only a black void. But suddenly, a beautiful colored city came into full view at the deepest part of the ocean. Although foreign to the group of friends, they felt welcomed by the colorful, neon city. Coral buildings lit up as if emblazoned by crimson, sapphire, and emerald stones. They were amazed and in awe at the sight. Then, as if an earthquake from an invader, the city began to be destroyed in the near distance.
Razor-sharp teeth mixed with an unknown vengeance, tore the city of neon and light, having no mercy and no shame. As the lights began to fade, only death and destruction was left behind. Once again, the four friends encountered a black oblivion and so they decided to investigate.
Walking around the barren city, they noticed another disturbing sight. In the ocean, like on the earth's terrain, there are black sinkholes of mystery. Leading to the unknown, nobody knew where these pits end. The four friends embraced courage and bravery and decided to step over the edge of the black pit, leaving their fate in the hands of the unknown.
A familiar sensation washed over them in the black sea: stomach turning and flipping sensations of falling. Thinking this led on forever, their assumptions were dashed away when they felt the suddenness of solid ground. In another height dimension they looked up and saw a distant faint light shining down. Sunlight, hope, and love. Although they were in the unknown, they still had hope on their side. 
When they looked around, they saw a desert made up of sand. Endless miles of sand and dunes made up this level of sea-hell. They then noticed a minuscule creature approaching them. A creature of the deep who was familiar with the depths introduced himself. "Hello friends, I am the leader of the deep ocean. You can call me plankton. Don't be worried as all species of plankton go by this name, but if you want a specific name for me you may choose as you desire.", he reassured.
"Um, hello there Mr. Plankton. What was all that about up there? A mysterious creature destroyed the entire beautiful city of neon colors. Why would he do such a thing?", the eldest boy asked. "Ah, the monster, Angler. Pay him no mind. You must venture on to find the secrets of the deep sea and the universe. You will find a glorious underwater paradise.", he replied. "Underwater paradise? But-" the elder replied back but suddenly with a snap, Mr. Plankton disappeared, leaving only a pile of salty dust behind.
After contemplating for a few moments, the four friends decided to listen to Mr. Plankton's advice and
ventured onward. Venture on to where, however, they didn't understand, but they moved forward continuing their adventure. They walked along the sand-desert terrain. Endless hills and dunes of sand particles after another they saw. "What's the point of this?", the youngest boy screamed out.
One of the girls replied with, "maybe there's no point of this. Maybe this is a dream. An illusion.". The youngest boy looked annoyed but kept on walking.
Walking,
and walking,
and walking.
On and on.
A never ending walk...
Why not running? Malnutrition and weakness would catch up to them and so the group kept going without stopping. Through their pain and boredom of never ending hills, they went on.
In the corner of their eyes, they noticed a twinkling light of hope. Shifting their bodies and heads, they noticed the twinkling gold light like a star in the distance. As they walked toward it they found themselves picking up speed until they were sprinting. 10 feet away...5 feet...and they were just about to grasp it when,
down_freefall
Down, deeper. Around them they were falling in an endless darkness.
"This is what death must feel like." the youngest shouted and suddenly, Mr. Plankton appeared and was free falling alongside them. But this was not the Mr. Plankton they thought of. Instead, the ghost of Mr. Plankton was falling with them. He told them, "don't be fooled my friends for the underwater paradise is not of light, but of darkness...", and he disappeared once again.
Feeling like an endless fall, the friends looked up, hoping for some helpful intervention or a sign of anything to help them...
Absolutely nothing.
Only the shimmer of a distant star shined from above. Unknown if it was a planet or a star body, the only sign of hope in their minds one last time until
BANG!
.
.
.
A collision...
*somewhere in this universe, a collision of human and planet occurred... A long hibernation followed.*
Down in the Ocean: Part 2
Waiting... Waiting... Waiting...
Asteroids glazed by, passing by, slowly, watching the still planet. As time passed away, the asteroids did too.
Breaking up into pieces and returning to the universe from where they came from.
In the watery space of the sea at the bottom of the ocean, planets lay alone. Lying dormant and waiting for the right time.
Long ago, when the bodies landed on the ocean floor, the universe was birthed. With their dormancy, time passed and left behind a shadowy figure of its former self. The universe; tired and worn out from the status quo. The universe and divine realm was promised with love and harmony. In the human world, however, great masses of ignorance, hatred, and violence remained leaving behind a cold winter devoid of warmth.
When things remain the same for too long, something must change. In all cycles, there is an end. The fruits of willing ignorance have been consumed for too long and now the universe and the planet of life are worn out. Sick of the willing ignorance that people live in day to day, associating with what does not matter: negativity.
There is a star among these four planets at the bottom of the sea. In the watery habitat he remained dormant and asleep for a short period of time. Asleep, but not dead. Granted with the task of saving the planet, he was ignored. The negative and hatred had consumed all life and positivity.
The humans think negatively in groups and with group comes unpredictable power and with negativity combined with power comes destruction. They desired hatred,
ignorance, and destruction and that was what the universe granted them.
This is the beginning of the end.
The angel lay dormant and then died. In death, he found reincarnation as an asteroid in the sea. The angel, rebirthed as this creature floated and swam up to the top to witness the demons' wish.
The element of fire contains great power. It grants the power of destruction and also love. Fire is one of the many blessings and curses in this universe. With his spirit of light he witnessed the power of the element. Not letting the evil overtake him, the universe asked him "To live or to die?". The angel chose to live but also to die. With this wish it was granted.
Falling... Down...
Into the deep...
The brightness of the fire slowly dissipated, leaving death and destruction, corpse and bone like the people were promised in its place. Like the fire, the light in his spirit disappeared and died.
Down in the Ocean...Up in the
Stars
What is your paradise?
Is it traveling the world with your loved one? Doing what you love as a job? How about watching the whole world fall apart in front of your eyes?
Two lovers walked along the sand, gazing into the distance. "Let's build a boat and travel the world", one said. The other replied with "okay" and a smile. Holding hands, they built the boat with their bare hands, stopping only to admire their art. At last they finished and they kicked off from the shore, waving goodbye to nobody, only their beloved home.
In the middle of the ocean, the air began to get hot. Hotter and hotter it got and when some water from the sea splashed onto the lovers' skin, they winced. Boiling hot, but why?
With the boiling temperature, the sky became intense with thunder and ash-filled clouds. Déjà vu of the attic from the past, the soot-like clouds were haunting and were only a prelude of what was to come.
Thousands of miles away, the lovers heard a loud explosion and with a great force, they were knocked off of their feet with a powerful shockwave. "Look!", cried one of the lovers as he pointed to the distance.
A wall. A liquid wall of blood coming to knock them out. The ocean had turned blood-red and tsunami-like and was coming to destroy. Before the lovers were washed away into nothing, the sky opened up and through the opening they witnessed a bright light; a single glimmer of hope.
Like the couples, people from all over the world saw this phenomenon of light and saw a ghostly spirit ascending. It looked like a dead or sleeping body being abducted by extraterrestrials, except the people of earth did not understand what was going on.
*
If they only knew
*
Under the ocean's surface, the dead fish remained
deceased. Then, it began to rise as a bright light shined upon the boy. Up and up and up, all through the different levels of hell he rose. As he was pulled out of the water, his body became human again but still dead. Above the bleeding sea he rose, through the small opening in the stormy clouds. Faster than a millisecond, the gap closed, and the planet was granted its wicked wish by the universe.
As he passed through the atmosphere, he shed his earthly vessel and was left as a sole soul; the original form. The soul opened its eyes to see the universe phenomenon that he always desired to see since the beginning. Earth was now covered in darkness and floating before him. He saw the crater-faced moon, a comet and asteroid passersby, and the life-giving brightest star in the solar system. Gazing at the sun and feeling its rays shine through him, he felt warmly at peace.
With the soul's human life behind him, he was ready to explore the deep caverns and secrets of the universe. Although he could not control his soul, he placed full trust that the universe would deliver him where he needed to go.
black holes, moon comet, planet
unknown entity, father figure light chaser, dimension life host
our universe is large but small infinite but finite immortal but mortal
...
*
Universe Sanctuary
"Hear the planets sing, feel the intense energy. Deliver him from..."
As the soul floated throughout the infinite field of bright stars and darkness, he had flashbacks of his human childhood. To be more specific, his old childhood bedroom.
In his old bedroom, on the walls lay tiny white spectacles on solid black background: a two dimensional image of space. He also remembered the buzzing pest that was flying and buzzing nonstop around his habitat. With a light swat, its life ceased to exist onto the universe wallpaper and now as a single fly, he flew in the actual third dimension of space. The third dimension, where he saw elders and children, births and deaths of magnificent proportions...
As he floated past Aries, asteroids of chaos, Sagittarius, Capricorn, Aquarius, Gemini, Pisces, Scorpio, and another set of asteroids, he approached the entrance of his whole life and in the far distance he saw the creator of life and light, the brightest star in the solar system, start to slowly fade away.
Going into the unknown territory of the quiet and lonely universe can be frightening to mortals but to all immortal souls there is no such thing as fear. Minds clouded in dark clouds can't see what's on the other side of the fence, the other side of the coin, the void of the unknown.
While the universe grants gifts, it doesn't grant its gems to negative vessels of energy. Sometimes, it takes a lifetime in order for the universe to grant the desired wishes it receives.
Everything you desire is at your fingertips, even on the three dimensional plane,
However,
it takes inner work and inner searching in order to access these gifts.
The planets, each with their own unique personalities said goodbye to the soul with love. As the soul received these gifts of knowledge and heart, he finally felt at peace. Like sudden death, goodbyes can be difficult, but they are necessary in order to find what one is looking for: the knowledge and knowing of the infinite and truth.
With this goodbye, another approached. The universe knew that he had the tools in order to go beyond and so with this realization it granted him full control. His individual will power was granted and with that, he left the Milky Way Galaxy for good.
Knowing that this had always been his dream, he was ready to explore many new adventures of infinite; infinite immortal adventures to learn hidden secrets. Finally, he left this sanctuary of peace and life in order to endure another sanctuary.
As the soul finally knew, the universe is the soul and the soul is the universe. Every soul comes to this revelation when they awaken again. The revelation that the soul is everywhere and nowhere all at once. In every dimension, every place of time, space, and event, the soul is there.
*
the one soul inside all humans makes up the soul of the divine universe
*
Stars Light Star
"Silently
one by one
in the infinite meadows of heaven blossomed the lovely stars,
the forget-me-nots of the angels" - H.W.L.
As his parents finished the bedtime story, they said goodnight and turned out the lights. The boy lay in his bed under the covers and watched the ceiling. Twinkling bright lights, star-like, twinkled back at him. He was always amazed whenever he would look outside and see the real phenomenon; the real bright stars. As he closed his eyes and dreamed, he dreamt of the biggest star in the entire universe. Bigger than the earth, the moon, and even the sun combined. He floated around this great mass and watched it as if he were in a movie in awe at each twinkling occurrence on its surface.
When the boy grew up he desired more than ever to someday travel amongst the stars and see the biggest star with his own eyes...
...so he did.
3333 A.D.
Drifting through the 3D plane of space, the ship floated seamlessly. News of a star, a star bigger than the sun came about when strange frequencies signaled to earth from the area. NASA quickly announced the discovery to the public and shortly after sent a space probe to investigate. As the probe got closer and closer to its goal, strange frequencies interfered and the probe slowly began to experience a full mechanical failure. However, through the use of a camera, it managed to capture a sight that was beyond what humans ever witnessed with their eyes before it died: millions of small solar flares of every color from the color spectrum danced in the atmosphere. Surrounding the massive star, it was like an angel-kissed phenomenon.
The non-controllable probe drifted until it was consumed entirely and destroyed by this star of color and light. NASA and the world amazed at what secrets the star may have, began funding a spacecraft that could travel light years. 3000 light years to be exact. As this began 100 years prior to the space voyage, it took 100 years to finally
complete .
In January, 3333 A.D., S.C. LIGHT took off from earth. In an instant, the craft was in the galaxy of the bright star and set out to search for it. It took a couple of days until S.C. LIGHT found the multiple colored specks of solar flares floating around them. What they soon found was that the flares floated through the ship and when the crew touched the flares, they did not hurt; they burst into manifestations of bright light and then disappeared.
These solar flares did not hurt them nor the ship when they touched. Wondering where this bright star was and why they couldn't see it if they were around its solar flare specks, the crew got into their space suits and began to do a space walk outside.
Through the pressurized exit they left but to their horror, they found themselves floating through empty space. Flipping and doing contortions, they feared their lives would end, but something strange happened.
The crew stopped floating chaotically and stopped upright in relation to the spaceship. It was almost like they could walk even though there was no solid ground. In other words, they could walk in space. In front of their eyes, a small ball of light was floating. Out of nowhere, it began to spiral around itself in the form of Fibonacci's spiral.
It kept spiraling until it was the size circumferentially of six suns. As it spiraled to its enormous size, the crew suddenly found themselves many millions of miles away
and were amazed again. The light at the center of the spiral burst to become the real planet.
Rainbows upon rainbows of colors burst into formation. The crew thought they would die because of the heat or get blinded by the bright light, but it was almost as if they were given permission by this great mass to live.
When the star was fully formed, it sent a message to each of the humans witnessing it telepathically:
"Anything and Everything, Infinite and Immortal you have become. Think and it's yours.
I am all of your desires and fears."
When it finished communicating its message, a portal on the star opened up. In less than a second, the crew were sucked in and it closed behind them.
White oblivion: the opposite of an oblivious afterlife. The group were now in an all white landscape. As they walked forward and took each stop, they could feel and see vibrations. One of them thought of the message they received: anything that they thought of could and would be theirs and they could manifest anything.
The first woman thought of strawberry ice cream in a cone. In an instant, the sweet ice cream in a cone was in hands. The second woman thought of a tall oak tree and in front of them, a tree sprouted from the white ground. One of the men dreamed of something bigger: another
spacecraft so that they could easily return home. The other man with a brave might, thought of a wormhole to travel anywhere he wanted to in the infinite universe. In an instant, a cloudy mist that looked like a portal formed in front of them. Outsmarting the third, he thought of the wormhole traveling back to earth so he could go home. He then walked through the cloudy mist and found himself back on earth, but something was different...
DEATH
Dead bodies everywhere. Even though he was protected from dying he could feel the heat of cities burning all over the earth. He could feel the earth itself physically burning.
The man ended up on a beach somewhere he did not recognize but he did notice black smoke rising into the atmosphere more inland. Along with the black smoke, there were black clouds covering the entire planet. As if the scene couldn't get any more dreadful, he noticed the disturbing ocean.
Artery blood-red. It was as if blood had taken the place of water. Out of nowhere the sky crackled and a thick lightning bolt struck the ocean. With this strike, the ocean receded from the beach into a massive wall and became a tsunami.
However, if did not crash into land. The tsunami formed a wall and then the wall began to travel outward towards the sea. The beach was no more, only miles and miles of sand. The man heard six explosions, then the sky became night: a night of black clouds, black smoke, and fire.
Remembering his powers, he imagined himself back inside the rainbow-colored star. He opened his eyes and found himself back at once.
After witnessing the horrors back on earth, he told the two women and other man about it. They began to be frightened and began to worry if they would ever have a
home again. After they thought worrying thoughts they received another message from the star being they were inside of.
"Please do not fear. Earth is destroyed. There are four survivors. You four have the tools,
in order to create a new world.
I must tell you however, there is a fifth survivor. But not in the current form...
A survivor.
A light bearer.
An angel.
You four must search for him
And you will be able to create a new world based on,
Love, Peace, and Harmony."
After receiving this message, the four humans decided to search for this unknown angel who would help them form a new world without evil.
666 ✝ 666
"The __________ will be the infernal ______ again for the
third and last time...
Soon, many evils shall be committed by the means of _____, the infernal ______, that almost the entire world shall be found undone and desolate.
Before these events happen, many rare birds will cry in the air, "Now! Now!" and sometime later will vanish." -Nostradamus
Birth. Life. Death.
Evil. Good. Light. DARK.
Human. Body. MIND.
LIGHT TEETH
COFFEE STAINED teeth.
Outer space. Stars. CONSTELLATIONS. Tesselations. Human. Mirror. REFLECTION. ALIEN
In a world of evil, there was a beacon of light. DEATH
Soul RISING Traveling the stars Universe exploration Earth destroyed
Discovering the universe
Comets and black holes Stars and planets
Universe phenomenon
Colliding stars Colliding planets Gamma Ray explosions Unknown creatures
LI6HT YEARS
Old soul
Long journeys of light and death.
Floating among the clouds of space
PEACE
10 9 8 7
and SLEEP Protected soul by the universe
Traveling and floating FOREVER space intuition
Universe
cosmos, stars, galaxies, planets
Endless Adventures Infinite Adventures
6
5 4 3 2
1
One
One way only
Escaping the old and mundane Escaping limits
Escapade
...
One Way Escapade.
Space Rip
He lay down on his bed and thought about the universe. The man thought about dimension and space and time. To the right of his bed was another bed that came furnished with the house. He usually put his things on that bed since it took up space in his room. He heard the sound of something hit the ground and became unsettled by it and began to think of something strange: What if it instead fell on the wall or in mid-air and made that same sound? The man stepped his foot on the ground and just above the bed to his right came a rip in space.
As he touched his right foot on the ground, he saw his foot hanging in midair coming through the rip. He then stood up with both feet on the floor and a magnificent phenomenon happened: He found that his other foot fell through and after a couple of seconds, he saw his body falling through the ground into the floor. Almost bewildered at what had happened, the rip in space was still floating in front of him but he didn't know what to do with it. It only showed a black void of space so he grasped the edges of the rip, peered through, and was amazed at what was there.
The universe is a complex thing made up of many complex ideas. There are written essays, history, life, and time in the universe and also humans. Beings unknown also contribute to the complexity of the universe. To describe the sights inside the space is easy: knowledge. The boy saw many man-made objects like the telescope, a solar system model, and even a diagram of the human body. Along with all of these pieces of knowledge, he also saw every piece of art ever created by humanity.
Among the art pieces, he saw the pyramids from Egypt, every church built, and every piece of art. Any human creation was in this rip in space.
Down_
_he fell into a never ending black void and as he fell down, each artistic piece and creation was shown in front of him from the first ever created to the most recent. It seems like it would take years to take in all this information but it was consumed in less than a second. Then, he finally knew the purpose of all of this.
After the most recent art creation, he was surrounded by a black void again as he falling and eventually, everything started to slow down and he noticed that his falling sensation came to a conclusion. Then, he saw in front of him, his own body asleep on his bed. He knew he was on his bed for he was wearing the clothes that he was wearing before he ventured into the space rip. The boy looked content and at peace while he was asleep.
After watching himself sleep, he called out "Milky Way Galaxy" and his sleeping body disappeared and was instantly shown the great size of the actual Milky Way Galaxy  floating in front of him. He then called out "Pyramids of Giza" and the ancient pyramids formed out of nothing in front of him. The boy called out "Universe" and all around him, little lights twinkled on and he could see forever. He eventually called out "Home" and was again shown his human body lying asleep. The boy then reached out to his sleeping body and touched it and was amazed at the sight of what happened.
Where he touched, beautiful light glowed on the sleeping skin and his sleeping self awoke and was staring back at him. They both floated in this black void but were independent of each other. They locked eyes and saw the past, present, and future of history and time. The version of himself staring back and his actual self touched their hands to communicate. Feelings of love, anger, fear, happiness, and every other emotion felt up to that point were communicated all at once and then they let go. The former sleeping version mouthed "Come on" and the next thing he knew, he was being pulled up, up past the creations of art, up above it all. He waved his hand and the next thing he knew everything was surrounding him and floating around the two like moons and planets.
Out of nowhere, the rip in space became again and
he could see his bedroom wall. When he was about to leave, his former sleeping self gave him an object but it was only a ball of light, and then he said, "You'll see"
which was audible this time. They then hugged and embraced each other meaningfully and his former sleeping self became one with him and he floated up into his room and onto the ground. The ball of light took the form of a black book, black pages and all. Inside the book there was every single creation of art in the entire course of history that he witnessed in the black void and on the last page was his name signed in gold on a blank black page. He took out a white crayon and drew a sleeping boy, like his former self. He also drew a bright yellow sun in the corner with rays shining down on himself and then he closed the book and filed it into his personal library.
After all of that, he decided to go outside onto his private boat dock and ended up falling asleep, against the warmth of the sun's beating rays as the sun slept too, creating darkness•
Black holes Comets
Unknown entities Light chasers
Moons Planets
Father figures Dimension life hosts
OUR LITTLE UNIVERSE
When we change our perspective from earthly matters and stop searching for answers external,
We are surprised to find that OUR LITTLE UNIVERSE has always been within us...
The era of ignorance ends
and,
The era of
6
begins.
6arrett7.