Thank Yous
Hello good listener
Congratulations! You made it to the end of the mixtape. Thank you for sticking it around and listening. I really appreciate it. Please feel free to just end it right here if you want. I’m just gonna thank some people that are important in the moving forward of life and thank some people who I have been fortunate enough to meet
To my mom, my dad, Shane, and Kelsey, I love you more than anyone in the world. You’ve helped me grow into a man that is ready to take on the real world ahead. I cannot thank you enough for all you’ve done for me in my life. I look forward to growing and creating new memories with my beautiful family
Hannah, thank you for sticking it out these past few years. I know you will continue to blossom into a beautiful woman and continue to make those around you better. I am still fighting to find the words to write a song that will do you justice. I love you
To my uncles and aunts, Kevin, Todd, Danielle, Bradd, Mary Beth, Sari, Eddie, Bill, Joan, Bobby, Leah, Josh, Ian, and Nikki, thank you for being great role models to look up to. I hope to create the same sense of family we all create when we get together. I love you all
For my cousins, Sam, Nikki, Maria, DeMarco, Leila, Giana, Carson, and Hailey, I wish you all the best that life has to offer, thank you for such wonderful memories
Special thank you to my cousin Anthony. Keep going after your dreams. Continue to listen to good art and good music. Continue to work hard in all that you do
To my cousins Dash and Kaito, I hope you both end up as caring, positive, selfless and wonderful as your mom and dad. Learn from them and grow into beautiful human beings
To coach Carpenter, coach Haun, coach Herrick, coach Hedeen, coach Flynn, coach Hertwig, coach Z, Mr. Jewison, and especially my dad, thank you for teaching kids young and old to persevere through the art of athletics. I have been very fortunate to have learned under all of you
To all my teachers, especially Mrs. G. and Mr. Roeckers, thank you for being excellent role models for thousands of students at Cotter High School
Thank you to my employers, Pat and Jerry, Paul, and Matt. Thank you for the opportunity to make money in the radio business doing what I’ve come to love
Toki Wright, thank you for reigniting a lost creative spark to get this project completed with care. I know I still have a mountain to climb to reach your level. The project would only have three songs finished if it weren’t for your teaching. You do great things for hip-hop music and for the Twin Cities area. I hope I made you proud
To my friends, I’ll try to mention all of you. Please don’t feel offended if I missed you. Many will tell you my memory is unfortunately short
To Andy, you’ve been one of the best brothers a man could ask for. There’s not really much to say except thank you. Good luck and give your roommate hell next year
To Andre, I’m happy you came to school. It’s been a blessing to know you since that first Taco Johns lunch. Good luck and give your roommate hell next year
Mike and Kevin, thank you for having all of us at your houses to watch football and create some ultimately great memories we will never forget. I will miss driving to a house after work on Sundays to eat pizza and chill
Wallie, I know you will be an excellent role model for younger kids and for your kids. Keep striving to improve in everything you do. You are a great man and I know you will do great things
Jonah, you have become an excellent leader on the court and ball diamond, and that has transitioned well in you becoming an excellent leader in life. Continue to do so
Logan D, you’ve matured into a beautiful person. I can’t wait to see what the future has in store for you. Keep working hard and have fun in college
Mikala, thank you for being an inclusive and positive person. Junior and senior year probably wouldn’t have been half as fun without your friendship. Have fun at college
Spitball and Jake, thank you for being a source of comedic relief when the lights are dark. Stay happy my brothers
To Carter and Sam, thank you for involving yourselves in the crazy lifestyle of Cajun’s Paradise. This will not die. Thanks for a great 5 years and here’s to a few more. You’ve been great friends. H-Train and Alec, continue to keep the league competitive
Brennan, thank you for being a great teammate and leader. You enlighten your audience greatly when you speak. Keep doing so
To the French brothers, Noah, David, and Jacob, continue to serve the world with your creativity and love. David, go get her, whoever she is. Good luck next year
To Cheese and Nacho and the Nachtigal family, thank you for being a constant source of entertainment and positivity. Thanks for creating a lot of great memories together. Good luck next year
To Justine, you have a powerful gift of making those around you happier and better. Wherever you are, keep doing that. I cannot thank you enough. Good luck next year
To Sam, Butters, Chase, and Calvin, it’s been really fun following you guys, especially this year. You’ve helped create a winning culture at Goodhue that will strive for excellence in the future. I wish you all the best in the years to come
Bardwell, Carver, and Jackson, hope you’re doing well in the North. Good luck to you guys in college!
David Lindstrand, good luck at SMU. Hope to see you around
Courtney Houglum, good luck wherever you go next year. It’s been real
Josh Forst, thanks for being a great friend and confidante. Have fun and work hard
Sebastian, thank you for being original and being a great friend to confide in. I hope this mixtape has made you proud
Drake Clifton, if you’re listening, you’re the one that started this whole music thing for me. Thank you for letting me listen to “Just Another Day” in your dorm room. I hope you have found yourself, wherever you are. Keep making music
JJ, thanks for being a great entertainer in all the rooms you walk in. Continue to be charismatic wherever you go
W, good luck next year man
Shu Baos, Fengbo, Sean, Michael, Guan, Tung, Brian, Kevin, William, Richard, Harry, Jerry, Jerry, and Harry, thanks for bringing your culture to Winona and America. I will miss you greatly. Same to you Lee, Shin, Jin, KP, and Moo Young
Legion/VFW guys Lenny, Matt and Hayden Zab, D-Banks, Joe, Clarky, Matt, Brommerich, Spencer, Nash, Larpie, Seeps, and Grandpa Thompson, we did some great things on the ball diamond. Good luck to those still playing. Sorry I won’t be joining you
Lauren B., continue to be creative and chase your dreams. Don’t let anyone stand in your way. You're awesome
Stolpa, thank you for being such a great friend. I am very lucky to have known you over the past year. I hope you keep serving your community with your bright smile and positivityness
To the Bowlin family, thanks for giving me my first job and being very welcoming. Patrick, I appreciate all you have done for me and know you will be as great a role model for other kids as you have been for me and Shane. Much love, my brother
Daniel, I’ll miss you next year buddy. Hope you bring your politeness and happiness to another car
Justin, I had some bars for you, man, but they weren’t good enough. The only thing I regret about this project was not getting a diss in for you haha. I hope you are doing well man
To the Going children, please grow up to be just as loving and selfless as your sister is. Grace and Hannah, thank you for being such great role models for your siblings. Bekah, thanks for being an unbelievable friend
Abbey Graner, thanks for being a great friend. Good luck next year and in college, wherever you go
Matt Hoffman, I’ll miss you buddy. Good luck wherever you go and whatever you do. I’m always a phone call away
Tyler and Gabe, thanks for being great coworkers and bringing energy to the radio life in Winona
Cotter baseball team of 2015 and 2016 thanks for the great memories. It was beautiful
Until next time
MC Crae