I hate talkin' in third person, but against Shotgun Suge you made Clips proud
That whole "'Excuse Me Miss', I saw you from across the-" nigga, I ain't know you listen to Chris Brown
You listen to R&B? Twork?
The gangsta nigga with the hoodie that be hard and vicious?
Didn't you get knocked for stealin' purses?
Oh RnB stand for Rob 'n Bitches
What? That was a reach?
Nah, cause if I reach it's to make a real hit record with my piece
The gun sang better than Chris but you cryin' from the bald head, that's Tyrese
Grab the semi. let the auto tune 'Everything', that's Jacquees
And from what I drew, he'll  be able to get outta rehab, in nine weeks
I'm old school R&B, if my niggas snap, then I snap, the whole group is flippin'
Old school, meanin' if I get the Temptation my whole group is trippin'
Ruger spittin', four singin' and one crackhead nigga, that's New Edition
Ya squad SWV, cause in Total I see a group of bitches
And y'all know SWV and Total was a group of-
Those losses against Wavy, Mike P & DNA, they should've humbled you
You beat Verb, barely, cause in the first round, oh he crumbled you
And see that's why I compare you to a female singin' group Twork
What? That line puzzled you?
Well in four battles, I counted 3 L and 1 W 
I'm a beast bredren, and the niggas I roll wit', just know they keep weapons
And got everything, from razor blades to a knife, so you should keep steppin'
All that rah rah shit, you can bring it over here, but you only got about three seconds
Cause by law, you should get cut for that long ass delivery in C sections
See that was just a couple lines that I came up wit' in my spare time
But it's one line that I wanna address, and that's ya hairline
You have been wearin' hats and hoodies since you was two
If you really love ya hairline then you would let it show
You have had the same barber for 20 years and it's time for you to let him go
What do you have, a dandruff problem my nigga? Scratch yo' head, go 'head, let it snow
Cause ya hairline is startin' to think you don't give a fuck anymore and it's time for you to let it know
Like, "Yo Line I'm here  for you. Fuck what these niggas think. You know I love you
And I ain't hiding you from the world and I'm just tryin' to hide the world from you."
Instead of robbin' women for they purses, you should rob niggas for they hairline, go 'head and take one
Cause I'd rather you rob niggas for they hairline then to treat ya own like it was Drake's son
And that ain't no disrespect to my nigga Drizzy
That was just a line to let you know that your line is a little iffy
But if I get half as mad
Two choices: the Timberland  or the plastic bag, that's word to Missy
I'll make ya aunt and mother eat each other out, them bitches old but they feelin' frisky
I won't even jump in, I just control the 69 like 50
Headshot, I'll let the revolver pop ya chin
Fuck a room, I want you to guess what barbershop I'm in
Before battle rap I was loadin' the clippers
Cuttin' niggas in the early mornin' on the wake up
But I changed my life and I made a shot for little niggas like you to come and shape up
But I still line Jersey niggas up, cause I got some serious chrome
Now guess what barber shop I'm in nigga? Serius Jones
Aye Jones, that's not a diss bro, on God
But if you mad, you gotta stay mad
Cause I'm puttin' every Jersey nigga in the freezer, it just depends on who I may tag 
Real Shotgun, and I got my shit stashed inside a grey bag
They ain't seen a light skinned nigga with this kind of Arsonal since Ray Swag
You Strapped In! No you not
Baow, I let the fo' fo' pop
Headshot, they had to do your obituary usin' Photoshop
You say shit like, "I run in the church and make everybody and the Reverend Run; Jojo pops"
I should leave ya body full of metal, since you got the same hairline as Robocop
Aye Smack, do me a favor, don't put a top dog against these funny cats
Go 'head and call me "ancient", but you the nigga that's gettin' mummy wrapped
When you, Beasley and Chico, where the fuck did you find these dummies at?
I love the strip club, but if this what you call twerk  I want my money back
I said your grandma called me the other day
You know I'm one of the smoothest cats
She said, "You done earned this good ass cookin' baby you done bruised my back."
I said, "you'll get used to that."
She said, "I heard you battlin' by baby Bootsie"
I said, "There's some truth to that."
She said, "Please take it easy on him baby. I don't wanna see him lose the match."
I said, "He 'bout to get that old Catholic school ass whoopin'. The ruler's back."
This that okey doke
They said, "Charlie Clips...late", my schedule was open though
As I was too far to turn down the volumes, not even remotely close
Overdose, they said, "How you gon' beat Charlie Clips? Bro the GOAT!
Different from any stat you  face, I told 'em  pose  
My rage jumpin', gauge dumpin
If all else fails to put Charlie Brown in the field, {ch-ch} the great pump can 
Y'all see how he had impersonations, that's all niggas doin' lately
Like bigga .9, I'ma start makin' you niggas pay me
You forgot about the little .9, that thing be goin' crazy
And since Charlie bit me, it's one finger on the baby
Crazy! You silly groupie
That ain't me, let me show you how to really do it
I'm Strapped In!
I'll clap you in a coma
Madness!
I could snap at any moment
You always fuckin' jokin', you might just die
You can't wake up out the casket and say, "Sike I lied!"
You fuckin' fool, bust a move, I dump a tool
BAOW! Guess what room he in? The upper room!
I brung it to him, I'm at his home
I'm leavin' this muhfucka with a bag of bones
The barrel long, one Glock shot will turn this into a hot spot; that alone 
I'm grippin' the Nina, you ain't tell me what room you in?
I'd rather figure the scene up
Slide wit' this crept and see , that's the difference between us
I go hard wit' my grind
The gang get caught wit' this, we losin' the guns and doin' all of the time
That's my family plan, I'm ready to put 'em all on the line
I'm talkin' blaze ya brother, slay ya mother, bust  ya grandma like the Wayans Brothers
I'll blaze this fucker, Clips y'all hero?
Mossberg 88 and I ain't showin' it for fashion
So if Charlie villain wave a  tool it's comin' four from the Maverick
You on a losin' streak, I got goons that creep, Ruger piece
You know a  Ark? It's two apiece
Deuce five; Jubilee
'Uh Oh', Lumidee
Headshot, let it ring in Charlie's face; unity
You wanna joke until I'm scorchin' a pound
If a revolver spin like a carousel, he'll stop horsing around
I laid it out?
Had a few thoughts before I brought this razor out
I'm thinkin' 'First name Charlie', last name "Yeah I Was Wonderin' If I Could Take You Out."
It's uncanny, I pull out this 'Sweet Little 16' and get Chuck buried 
I'm headed to Harlem, like "Fuck Wolf love"
Shotty to his chest, hit ICE like the Titanic, I'm leavin' bodies on deck
What, y'all ain't like that?
Well I'm so muhfuckin' mean wit' it, I can bring that shit back and do a whole 'nother scheme wit' it
.40 loaded on me, clip long as the Titanic, he barely survive like Jack and Rose, but I adore  you holdin' on
I'm doin' you foul
Baow, baow, two to ya scalp
If I let it ring again I be renewin' the vows
Jersey
Remember it's a boxing match. You gotta fight smart. Great first round kid
Fight back!
Tell ya mother to fight back when I pipe that. Watch ya mouth
Oh my god, he might take this battle serious
Be happy little nigga, lotta people across the world been dyin' to get this Charlie
Cause they know I got the gift to make twerk  look nasty like Cortez mother backin' it up at a Christmas party
I overhead you tell niggas that you was lyrical
Well see this the part where I break you down liar
Cause all you do is use TV songs and commercials and put "baow" in the middle to make it sound fire
Nigga be like, "When I pull out everybody get laid down, it's a full couch
Everywhere you look, everywhere you- BAOW! Ain't nobody alive in that Full House!"
And see y'all will go crazy like he just performed some kind of miracle
Just because he screams and adds "baow" it does not make him lyrical
Nigga be like, "I'm masked down, potato on the barrel, who smell a hash brown?
Call JG Wentworth 877-Cash-
BAOW! I want my cash NOW!"
Y'all niggas will go crazy like he just performed some kind of miracle
Just 'cause he screams and adds "baow" it does not make him lyrical
The nigga be like, "I get ya homie smoked
Right in front of the church: he'll get the holy ghost
'Cause every kiss begins with K- BAOW! No it don't!"
Y'all niggas will go crazy like he just performed some kind of miracle
Just 'cause he screams and adds "baow" it does not make him lyrical
Aye I wanna know somethin', is the "baow" the gun or the shot?
I wanna know so I can practice on it
I salute you though, cause that "baow" shit, you got all these new battle rappers on it
I miss my old gun, Twork, scraped the serial off
So if the cops find it, the numbers is never matchin' on it
So the last time I seen my Bow, Wow, it had scratches on it
Off that alone, that should let y'all know I'm better than him
Before I kick box karate chop Swave Sevah ya chin
Make sure this is the last battle we hear "BAOW!" or Smack gon' have to bring a reverend in
Stomach shot he'll never be able to BAOW  ever again
Random!
But which city started callin' extended clips "dicks"?
Pause!
Whoever came up wit' that though, y'all petty
And there's real killers that call her that, so fuck it, I got a bar ready
God deadly, I grip the AR and hold the arm steady
Reload the clip and put a dick in a 15: R. Kelly!
Hold up, y'all know what?
I'm so motherfuckin' mean wit' it
Nnnah, pause that, I ain't tryin' to do a whole 'nother scheme wit' it
Old gun, but I make it feel new when I attach the beam wit' it
Headshot, but ya hairline crooked, I gotta lean wit' it
New Jersey in the buildin'? Bllaow, ya whole team get it
Cops show up? Will Smith in I, Robot - the machine did it
I heard you was out in London lookin' broke
You couldn't even borrow money from your own camp
Askin' niggas, "Can I get a hit of ya blunt?"
You ain't even have money to grow ya own plant
And you was askin' niggas to use they jacks
Wow, you couldn't upgrade ya phone, champ?
You don't find it crazy how ya manager Rome , but ya phone can't?
Oh, I'm so happy they booked this battle next to Disney so he can take a trip to SeaWorld where the killers dwell
Where we drown him like Shamu since you sayin' that you a killer, well 
That last line, ah, it was irrelevant
Sike, I lied - I'm playin' wit' your intelligence
I'm glad they booked the battle in Orlando so when I kill you they won't tamper  wit' the evidence!
Hey, Smack, stop bookin' me against these bummy cats!
I love the strip club, but if this what you call twerk , I want my money back
I said I'm the excellent one
You can never compare me to the rest of these bums
I'm nothin' like 'em, there's nothin' like me, I'm as best as they come
This like Sister Act 2: I'm second to none 
It's fatalism, Charlie fuck around get bullets bangin' in him
Triangular barrel wit' the beam, I can make a prism
POP! But the .38 Special: I got favoritism
This Magic Johnson when he first got AIDS, I'm not playin' wit' him
I shoot to kill, show him how the Ruger feel
BAOW! The Clips that never made it, this the blooper reel
I'm too for real
Robberies, I done really took cash from you clowns
I hit licks like plane crashes, you know the mask  comin' down
MAC swing around like "Where the bricks?" We hit the house
And comin' from the Wild 'N Out games you know you can't hold water so spit it out
I know what this nigga 'bout
You should've declined and stayed safe, save face
One bullet will turn a living legend to late great
You gotta move, y'all wearin'  Ncredible jackets like Nick Cannon, y'all got a group?
Well if I make him casket sharp, you gon' follow suit
What kinda guy is you?
Yeah you made it to Wild N Out, got the big checks and that's the greatest feelin'
But rap about any money you earn and I'ma make a killin'
I'm independent, you was havin' sleep overs wit' Eric? Y'all some different niggas
Break in, fuck the front, hit the back like a fender bender
POP, I would've caught DNA at the crib I would've clipped the nigga
BAOW, put down on the couch Rent-A-Center
I blaze these things, whatchu think? Cause my gun go blaow it's make believe?
Charlie, I can leave the bow out...gracefully
Lead bake, two .23's will change ya head shape
Speakin' of shape, when I heard you was workin' out I said, "Great."
I'll give you the only pounds you can't lose; dead weight
MAC dumpin', break in, mask comin' wit' gats drawn
You think it's Wild 'N Out, man it look like the black squad
I'm in this bitch, you at the Faceoff comparin' me to you, I got penmanship
I'm like Charlie wit' longevity, extended Clips
You been a bitch, in real life they be bitchin' Clips
You come to battle rap and turned a  hero, like the Crimson Chin I'm sick of it
Who let these niggas in? This pure- wait Nick Cannon gave you that chain?
I'll put an end  to it
This limitless, I done really robbed niggas for plenty of things
Like they was too drunk to drive, give me the keys
Jersey
You was NWX for two hours
Then Jakkboy Maine punked you outta the fuckin' group
You say shit like, "I got a snub wit' a wide nose and a buncha Dots
And if I hold it upside down it feel like you're lookin' up to Mook."
You a fuckin' goof
You 6'2" and 3/4th, why when you rap you jump and shoot?
Either stand still or my hands will, be the first thing to make a hit with twerk  since Uncle Luke
My gun'll pop, speakin' of Uncle Luke, I got a 2 Live Crew and you the nigga they wanna rock
What's in his drawers? Doo Doo Brown and all I heard was 100 shots
Ya baby moms? A fuckin' thot
And you confiscate her phone like you a fuckin' cop
So I gotta text her shit like, "The promoters ain't want Brizz."
That's just code word for "All we want is Top"
Are you a thug or not?
I catch ya baby moms while she headed to work
If you act Rowdy I'ma pipe her  dead in her skirt
Extended clip turn the Eagle into an ostrich and leave ya head in the dirt
Cause I'm a fat nigga that's dyin' to let it sing since Gerald Levert
Stop actin' arrogant, you don't own guns little nigga, y'all be sharin' it
Oh you carry for other niggas, aye Geechi we got a surrogate
I got a new gun, I gotta load it around wi-fi before I'm airin' it
And it's Bluetooth so I can grab another gun and start pairin' it
Nu Jerzey Twork, you don't even be in New Jersey, Twork, I ain't hearin' it
I heard you left Jersey cause ya family on drugs, the embarrassment
But if there's one thing TV showed me is that Family Matters and you should cherish it
No matter how much ya mother watched ya father cop in the house like Harriet
All you do is go "Jersey" and end ya rounds early
And this a repeat
All you do is go "Jersey" and end ya rounds early
And this a repeat
You got me battlin' in a small room I should make ya nose bleed for these cheap seats
What you do against Arsonal? A million in a month?
Well congratulations my nigga, well that's just a sneak peek
Cause a battle with Clips just gon' blow New Jersey up, that's word to Chief Keef
D. Wade press conference, my union stay around to see the Heat speak
2-1? Nah I came to catch a clean body, I'm a neat freak
The pound keep comin' back around, hashtag on a reTweet
And to be honest , they ain't see these kinda Bucks since the Greek Freak
You did the salsa, battled Nitty, claimed you was bilingual
And you said you too season sofrito and you said you'd run up on him with the little knife; poquito
But my favorite part, is when you said you'll cut Rum to the white: mojito
But then we watched Rum milk you for everything: coquito
I'm amazin' wit' it, everything I say is vicious
You'll catch strays, ASPCA, I don't play wit' bitches
Red you said somethin' earlier? Well I'll throw somethin' in O's shin  when I spray the biscuit
And he'll get found in the Pacific, like a ghetto bitch that's tryin' to say "specific"
Aye Red, follow the Code, Red and don't get it twisted
It's not a Mountain Dew cause you'll get Rushed
But you'll get rushed more  dependin' on what this amountin'  too
Yeah ya baby mom's about to leave you for me nigga
She's about to bounce, it's true
But you can't get mad at her, cause you know she got the bounce from you
I'm Strapped In!
I'll clap him in a coma and put a cap inside his gown before he can grab his diploma
The best arrived, you like when my guns clap, well I've got an extra five
And this one clap like a drunk uncle tryin' to start the 'Electric Slide'
{Charlie goes to give Smack a five and pulls his hand away}
No! You next to die!
You let Smack take $8,000 from you?
He took the grands you was worth
And instead of runnin' down like a fuckin' man, you got on cam' wit' it first
I watched the whole damn thing, it's a damn shame how they handled ya purse
I mean he took the 8, you get the message; Amber Alert
You bitch body, I never glorified the life I chose, I just wasn't in the crib hidin'
The gangsta shit was right next door to me, so I lived by it
You a goofy in fact, you know why niggas think you so disloyal?
You can go on Youtube for that
You watched ya man get jumped in Cali, so you do the Math
If I would've got jumped in Cali and you just gazin' at it
For some fuckin' slippers, you would've left wearin' Stacey Adams
I would've made an example out you, so no nigga played me after
I would've used your skull and bones as a sign like a safety hazard
I'm blazin' at him, I'm 'bout to bury you with a 100 in the pound
And I just wanted to rap but niggas done flipped ya name so fuckin' much I ain't got no choice but to run it through ground
You got kicked to the curb, well now you comin' back for me? This nigga absurd
You must be lookin' for a buzz, like Emperor Zurg
There's no tolerance, I'm not surprised that your pop's a snitch
I'm just confused how you can walk the earth with no consequence
Acknowledge it, it's common sense
Pharaoh ain't let God's people go and his son had to pay for his father's sins
It's set in stone, but before you could ever follow his footsteps, I'll let Beretta's go
Now you'll never snitch on nobody, he won't tell a soul
Jersey