Everybody's asking, "How Illmac's gonna adjust to the New York crowd?" I guess we're about to fucking see
See that's where they fucked up 'cause I don't adjust to crowds - crowds adjust to me
The difference is I don't swing and miss - and that's why they're duckin' me
You chase the big fish, I'd be like "Y'ALL BRING LUX TO ME!"
I caught that last 30 fresh off a tour
Half man, half God I'm Thor
What's next, slug fest - Gotti war
Ready to rumble from the start and do numbers on the card like a boxing scores
Mop the floor
Throw dirt on my name? I'll throw dirt on your rotten corpse
Think you fire till you get your body torched like Johnny Storm
Make 'em go solar, fuck the laws that crooked cops enforce
I'll be behind bars when this blow/Blow over like Boston George
What you want drama for?
Like you never lost before
Throw shots I throw 'em straight back - I been working on my posture more
This year, been on a run - Escobar in the Narco war
That's why they got me flaming money like Pablo tryna keep his daughter warm
I'm hot - dodge the warpath
Forecast? Lightening clouds ahead
Spray slugs 'til it rains blood, turn the sky brownish red
No sunny skies or butterflies as you climbing out of bed
Wake up to birds chirping - it's the concussion as they fly around his head
Permanent damage
It's a wrap for Blood: tourniquet bandage
Hears my name, and breaks out like allergic reactions
This is terminal cancer
See he knew he was dead when I hit the terminal, panicked
And tried to jet soon as he heard that I landed
I let 'em carry-on, that's personal baggage
Then take flight  "Here's a word from your captain."
You ain't a G, that's plain to see/plane to sea like an emergency landing
You listen to him? You think he tucking the heater savage
Running the streets with ratchets
Or buck when the thing is brandished
You meet him? Ha, he's comfortable being average
Humble with decent manners
Reluctant and sheepish as a puppy who needs his master
But hold up - I only see a couple people reacting
I don't think that they understand it
I mean J ain't what he sounds like - fuck am I speaking Spanish?!
Mijo, it's either you a lick or you hitting licks
You know the hustle if you are
Talking birds'll get 'em clipped, pigeon shit - get to dumping on his car
With the shits, swisher lit
Get him gutted like cigars
Temple split, that's where I'll stick the pick like strumming a guitar
Everything core to my aura is more rare
I'm every ignored prayer in the Lord's ear
My worn souls disturb the grave of his corpse there
Receiving life through death and oxymoron like warfare/war fair
War, fair - don't think our wordplay's comparable
I'll make your birthplace your burial
But to kill you's merciful
Once stripped of purpose, you'll know living's a worst-case scenario
Suicide, written note, then his soul exit
Cut 'em slack, give 'em rope, watch 'em stick his own neck in
Bullet or a stab wound tattoo? Let him pick his own weapon
Then chopper or the blade: that's my stick-and-poke method!
Check it, they doubted me on this stage - ain't shit to me a different day
Last time I left New York with a Championship ring and 50K
At home in Cali, but came to NYC to hit a J
Guess all it took was an altered state to be seen in a different way
Every letter
Illmaculate! Illmaculate, Illmaculate, Illmac, you late
Overdue match-up between you and I
I know, and I've killed to put things into perspective, I'm GOAT
And I've been that since a zygote
I'm here to prove somethin' and I have
This is just extracurricular, the sideshow
Ratchet on my side and all my guys know
But they don't say a word...and that's guy code
And that's on everythin', that metal bang? Y'all ain't savin' money with Geico
This is what greatness is
You clowns are just plagarists
Tryin' to sneak a scheme past Stephen King
Oh wow, well I created It
Ain't no secret that I'm a lil' nigga
But I can finally say "lil' nigga" cause this kid 5'2"
But I won't!
Because the big niggas in front of me be lookin' his size, too!
I'm just in a different zone, and Money Talks so a stretcher is what I leave my victim on
See how y'all just rappin'? Wordplay?
I haven't played with a word since I started rappin'
So if you lookin' for a nigga to embarrass you...you couldn't have picked a better dude
Colossal impact, even at eye level I level you
So that legend status I just have to critique
You went from rappin' with Pete
Gettin' accolades to just tryin' to rap to compete
See them accolades is what made you important you fuckin' gargoyle
Only on the stat you  a beast
But me? I'm just in a different zone, damn near impossible to stop
Lift the Glock, all that talk and equip the dot, period, sentence stop
So play yo' part, because them Cali trees can't even see the fire my name can start
I hit grandpa, big hammer
Even fix grandma  like language arts and I ain't finished
You been here forever, so how can you have what the game missin'?
See, that's why my style so copied by these lame niggas
Same gimmick, start dissectin' a style that come out
It'll be like reachin' in a couch in my house
I guarantee you it's mine if you find some change in it
But I'm not lyin', I used t get criticized daily in the ring for my crimes
As of lately, ain't no debate from it, cause they know this one, 800's, just from hot lines
So what you got for me? A bunch of corny-ass jokes that's not funny?
Well, I aim, and niggas die
I go to sleep and wake up right next to the ratchet and even banger  to the side
Nigga, Grim Reaper, Crypt Keeper, I bring that same pain to niggas lives
So be outstandin' cause I'm out standin' with a chopper
So put on a cape and lose half yo' face like The Phantom Of The Opera
Bitch I'm here to state the facts, our mind got a generation gap
So he might not make it home this evenin'
Cause the pain you receivin' has gotten worse
Not even Saga church gon' save you from this beatin'
I'm unstoppable
An Illmaculate bag for Illmaculate? Probable
I mean you came here to punch
It shouldn't be a shock to you that I'm boxin' you
You get shit back, with a note from me
And they only get half like show money
Either show money or seal the boy fate
Cause we all usin' 'em to make a statement, right?
But I notarize mine before the court case
It's body bags at every battle, make sure your homie found one
But do not jump into that bitch yet cause this is only round one
I see his little run, he's tryna get the throne
Well I'll open your chest with chrome
Stop your heart's metronome
You made a good point, I am a legend known
And I am a Gargoyle, I'm a beast that's set in stone
JC, K exposed you
Dude was caught dressin' in bootleg TRU Religions like you was all flexing
Man how you let 'em turn your wardrobe into a TRU or false question?
Speaking of religions, Jesus initials right?
Well if dude was Christ, that would be jokes to me
Because he could probably be crucified on an actual rosary
Bow ya head and pray to Christ
You been going in circles your whole career, without the racing stripes
Well Shake n Bake baby, now I'm at the table hyped
Cause they got me praying on Baby Jesus; Talladega Nights
Right, attitude? Like fuck living
Son dissin'? That's when the ratchet come out like drunk women
Slugs hit 'em, he don't get the TEC's  message?
Chopper in the trunk hidden
I'll put J in front of the K - Just Kidding
Snuff victim
Happened so fast they're like "Did he just hit him?"
Second punch lift 'em
Now they're positive, it was uplifting
Act defiant, while fans are whining
Asking why I'm, rapping violent and straps are flying
Well, what you think that I'm lying?
You catch my last battle? Fine then
You already know I know how to handle Iron
But you, made a video... dancing for Chris Stokes
Shit's DOPE!
I mean, bro, did you just want your name in his mouth? Is that about attention?
Now he does mention you, among other kids he brags about molestin'
It was who wants to be a child star, turned casting couch confession
Ask what happened, he'll break a sweat, shake his head - and dance around the question
You know what? That's irrelevant you know why that's irrelevant?
Cause he don't dance now, he make money moves
30 bucks a battle, he ain't pullin' Lux's views
At end of the day, see your whole little run, bro, that shit's irrelevant man
Do you wanna know why? Do you wanna know why?
He got a couple wins, he calling for match-ups, great
Now you calling out Lux, hold up, back up, wait
I mean you get love from the fans, but here's where the gas pump breaks
That whole run is a shame, think 21 Grams, those bodies didn't hold that much weight
You know what, you ain't body nobody notable
What you beat Chess, Trez? Maaaaan that's what you was supposed to do!
Now he making lateral moves, acting like he fuckin' ODing
Reminding me of Forrest Gump this whole season
Just on a run for no reason
The people you aspire to battle, I'm acknowledged as their peer
When I talk to 'em, it's like talking to a mirror
This your conscience getting clear
Motherfuckers like you come and go, they were gone as they appeared
What you been hot a couple years?
Bitch I got winning streaks as long as your career
He actually fooled people into thinkin' he deserves Lux, it's a nice movement you got here
While you're at it, give Born, Hollow, give Trez, Mook if he wants, yea
SMACK can play Oprah like "Nahm'sayin', you get a top tier! You get a top tier! You get a top tier!"
Question, what's DJ Pauly D calling out Tony Touch?
Question, what's Bill Gates suin' a homeless drunk?
Question, what's a NY Legend battlin' some dude who mostly sucks
I guess the perfect analogy is you and Loaded Lux
On one hand, an up and comer, just tryna get his name to here
On the other, Lux doing favors, not ending J's career
I see it from both sides like interrogation mirrors
He thinks Lux is balling/bawling so he's crying for the match, that's what separates their tiers/tears
You out here calling names, like a rookie, having his first solid game
Thinkin' he earned a spot in the Hall of Fame
But dawg, you know what? You know what? Shit gets worse
What's an intern, applying for a CEO position first?
That was a Loaded question, but he's gon' get this work
Imagine Loaded... getting tweeted by Jay Z
Thinking "Ain't nothing left now but competin' with JC."
See I sit back, watch 'em chase his small fame
It's way beyond lame
Look, think Jayceon's name
Cause if name dropping the Game JC on/Jayceon then tonight I'm putting Jayceon/JC on Game
It ain't a game we on, play me wrong and get a change of heart
Or pistol whip him til the handle's red like Maker's Mark
If ya clique want it too then which one of you want your nose split?
I'll break the bridge up in two like a fucking ship's coming through
He shoulda just stuck in his lane
Cause now when Loaded declines, ain't much that remains
Just fortune cookie wisdom, stuck in his brain
Getting that small paper, saying that Lux's/luck's gonna change
The bias is real, ain't no doin' enough
People will say I lose if I won and if you lose then it's luck
So who gives a fuck, I hope you do get Lux
And you have to battle on the roof... in front of everyone that rooted for you from the jump!
But the truth, the sad truth, is that Lux is your full potential, and it just bothers you you can see it
And I'm just an obligation that stopped you before you reached it
Ill!
I have no clue why I'm here, yeah now I'm just keepin' it real
But you gon' be that nigga I leave in the field
I kill to say it sadly
Avery Bradley how I reach for the Steel
Head shots, I do shit how I want to 'Mac
And that's my way, you wanna perform for the artist
I wanna storm through a Target like Black Friday
That's real shit, the steel spit
You get a buck 50 for talkin', we seal lips
Nigga you won't even hear a name flip tonight, but we still spittin'
Hit everybody, watch him head in the office, now his bitch tryna run; oh they the real Clintons
I got complacent when I first saw my piece of the cake
Like, "Just my portion is fine."
But then I changed it with time
Now I shoot over a line like the game on the line
So how dare you say I'm not one you see as a legend
Right now I'm givin' a shot, you niggas just need some protection
I shoot accurate, you  completely in seconds
Needin' a reverend, missin' everything from your heartbeat to your necklace
Bitch I been the sickest
And the nine special like a director's cut, the clip extended
And we gon' leave him stuck, shit the nigga skipped admission and he gon keep the bucks
The shit all enlightenin', like when Jesus comin'
But you gon' be standin' there with the mixtape verse Rex face
Dyin' over and over, Happy Death Day
Now if this shit is all about image, why is you tryin' so hard to convince these niggas into believin' yo' statements?
No talkin', either leave this closed  or end up in a secret location
This a fast fight...literally
I finished it last night
Mad late, but I'm patient with time and great with the nine
A bullet go straight in spine like a back brace, we need you up right
Because this one night ain't about increasin' the peace
Shit you'll get beat with the piece like you Pun wife
You was supposed to blow up from them 2 on 2's in 2007
2007 Mr. New York and 50 grand
2007 and that's when your name was important
But you couldn't, cause all the hot shit came from The Saurus
And you was piggy backin', bitchin', actin'
Frontin' like you play the part, you coulda won a Oscar
The truth is, he had you on his back so fuckin' long y'all could become a chopper
Now you figure, with JC in front of you, you can finally get that recognition with a lil' letter to stamp there
Won't work
You are as noticeable as a wave...in Kevin Durant hair
We don't see you ever!
Believe you? Never!
Y'all niggas kinda forgot and I get it
Y'all are just in line for the shot
But this execution by way of firin' squad
And shoot accurate, dead on
I don't come for the scuffles
Think it's a game and die clear in a round...nothin' but Trouble
I don't even need an openin' when the can' spittin'
Shit I'll take any shot I'm ambitious
Some times I go buy shit just to fry it like when fam' visit
And I know you prolly think this yo' grand ticket
But this battle rap, our house, no new wars
I make you do chores
If I get abusive, fine
But if I lose my mind you lose yours
And I don't care to find it because they too narrowminded
Thinkin' this a one day step
Always worrin' about buyin' an outline until a body in an outline is the only one they left
Round 2 nigga
You said I'm a wave in Kevin Durant's hair, that line did not suck
Hang ten bro, too bad you the one getting washed up
It's funny I lost the chain, they think my reputation's tarnished
But they even stripped the title from Mohammed, I'm saying I'm a heavyweight regardless
I do my job and it pays off, that's what separates us artists
I put my work in good will/Good Will, that's why my resume's retarded
I'm talking wins on Clips, Dizaster, Chilla, Pat Stay
Bodies on Verb, Real Deal, Iron Solomon, DNA
I'm fresh off a body like Drake, sending bottles to Charlemagne
That's what fucking with my pen entails/pinnin' tails and you're just Donkey of the Day
Freestyle, Grind Time, King Of The Dot, Pearly Gates
Last of a Rare Breed to stay on top when the eras change
I heard strippers were on strike in NY, that's ironic in several ways
Cause if you strip down battle rap I got bodies at every stage
Ya'' got 'em acting, like he's always sick - hypochondriac-tin'
Your drive is stagnant
Making moves, going nowhere, you lost in transit
You making moves, going nowhere, actually you locked in traffic
But I'll give him his big break, go 'head sign 'em - after I body cast him
Mark 'em out while he stuck in the same position, my signature move - I autograph him
You stay shook, coffee addict
Right hook, jaw gets damaged
Mouth stickin' out the side while you talkin' like a Boston accent
You never caught a body, you got framed, you Roger Rabbit
I bodied Clips then he 'bodied' Clips, that ain't a body, bitch - you just caught the casket
You tough as food stains on cotton fabric
Which explains why he sticks around until he gets washed and Vanish
Dryer sheets, in your laundry basket
Lil' homie you don't want no static
I'll have his parents rocking black and Johnny Cash 'em
Run his jewels, stick 'em over ice - hockey slash 'em
Get found dead in the hills, Arrowhead in his grill - I'll Pontiac 'em
Air 'em out, toxic gasses
Stretch 'em out, Pilates classes
You soft J, what y'all didn't catch it?
I'm saying you soft J, fuck am I talking Spanish?
Mijo, ya bitch, soon as we touched down - we didn't even make a play at her
Smashed mouth without running game, change the play pattern
Had her wetter than a winning coach soaked in Gatorade after
The whole team ran through it like the break away banner
Don't blame me, the hoe asked for it, go grab the bitch
Kill the pussy I'm toe tagging it
Before a medic can react when I stretch her in the back - whoop - no ambulance
I look at your hoodie, and I'm like, "Go Kaepernick"
That means I won't stand for it
Gasoline, broke lantern shit
That means my whole camp is lit
That's fire
I won't angle 'em, room shakers - the whole planet shift
Throw hands with 'em
You gon' need a couple hosts, panelists and a show analyst
To see J black/Jay Blac on a known Champion
You know what I realized?
Everything that he poppin' fo' today happened back in 2007
Thankfully at the Pearly Gates they found you Heaven
Cause that was it
Sad as shit
Get up or get outta the game
Kaepernick you should've played to him
Cause the fact that you didn't gon' make this all worse, you headed that way
And you riskin' rejection cause you didn't call first
Get right wit him
You 'bout to die just tryna write wit him
I like killin', but that first coffin  that's just a light symptom, it gets much worse
The fact that you still tryin' to rap and nobody care, trust hurts
'Specially when you do fall back and nobody there
Life sucks doesn't it?
And yours is endin' because of it
And I only got a couple more drills in my lab jacket and he just lab rattin'
But you will never get no real runnin' on wheels
So life's comin' to a close, get the shovel
He tried to punch wit a nigga grippin' metal
Of course I can elevate a nigga
Every round is a different level
They won't even call this close
Don't leave all exposed when that valve to your heart get closed
And the docs catch that accapella, I'm talkin' dead beat; Maury Show
So avoid the shit, niggas only hate these bars when they die from it
Time limits and how slow people rap, blowin' shit outta proportion
Kickin' out bitch emotions, that's exactly how an over react 
But thankfully, no matter where we at, you have to bleed
Even on stage my first line caution taped half the scene
I even killed in the hood like Assassin's Creed
Y'all niggas came to throw shots and punches
Now I'm thinkin' bombs or choppers with the scopes
That's my peepin' Tom
I'm out the window wit it
Mirror match, Illmac' could get served with a MAC
Then I spin the block with more of it
Mark Morrison, it's the Return Of The Mack
Don't ego trip because you wasn't seein'  worse shit til you was seen verse me on this card
So don't think that bullshit you writin' would bring you this far
I mean this one bout, is like finally landin' that haymaker on Punch-Out!
They just wanna see Little Mac swing with the stars
So how do you plan on progressin' now?
If you gon' be doin' those same schemes later
See, you just existin', I made the scene greater
You don't need skills for droppin' facts
Just like you don't need a Mill  for droppin' mac like Dreamchaser
You niggas will never hear shit this sweet
Y'all niggas hear lines y'all didn't get for weeks
But be swearin' y'all had every rhyme
Then hear shit that point back to the line like a widow peak
I'm a permanent mark, never mind Pearly Gates
You see the Devil I blaze the steel, then bombs drop
I'm literally gon' level the playin' field
It's all about head shots, by me, pretty accurate too, even behind scenes
I'm Harvey Weinstein without the harassment in suits
That just mean I grab the ratchets and shoot
Now how unfair is this?
How I can this and take these rhymes as a weapon
In a battle about gun violence but still make it as one sided as a vampire reflection
Illmac' it's over wit!
Overdose from the dopest pen
Y'all know I wrote the shit cause every battle turn into a eulogy
My condolences