The Scenario
Welcome to your initiation into a society of greedy hypocrites, elation-driven zombies, and a whole bunch of people who have more in common with you than you are aware of. Much like the evolution of the video game console, your life also evolves and expands and adds new dimensions as time passes and technology progresses. Consider high school to be, say, Sega Genesis: the world is two dimensional and linear, the scenery is, by and large, pleasant enough to lull you into wanting to go through the levels and have as much fun as possible. The controls are simple enough to make you feel like you’re actually going somewhere . Finally, after fighting the final boss, you have beaten the game at last.
Congratulations. Enjoy the ending credits.
Time passes. More games come out, more systems come out, and technology evolves alongside society. You watch yourself change, as you watch the people around you and the rest of the world change too. Your life now is Playstation 3. The world has become mind-bogglingly detail-orientated, the scenery is vast and seemingly infinite, and the controls are bigger and have way more buttons. Some controllers aren’t even traditional controllers; they’re designed to operate like light guns, steering wheels and toy guitars. In half of these new games, these new adaptations are really the only way to play.
“After working so hard to master four basic directions, I can now control the entire world I’ve been living in up to until now… with a guitar?”
Absolutely.
Of course, there’s also the multiplayer aspect… on crack. Specifically, you’re no longer playing by yourself or with one other person. You’re online with everyone else, and even if you’re not, the globe is still turning. What was once a nerd’s individual fantasy is now a multi-billion dollar industry. The dimensions have been expanded and now your awareness must evolve in order to compensate. Millions of other people are constantly beginning and ending new quests , and there really isn’t any way to pause… unless you find a quiet spot and isolate yourself from townsfolk and aggressive mobs alike.
Simply put, the world is full of opportunities.
But the thing is, in this game, the evil boss has already won and the few superheroes left aren’t the most powerful people on Earth. The game of life here is about business first and enjoying the fruits of your labor last, if at all. The long-time wealthy have most of the money and all of the political power, which is a stage show featuring revolving characters designed to act out ever-shifting balances of power and progression on various issues. It’s really just a distraction from the real problem: The rich get richer and the poor get poorer. That will never change, as long as there are people in the world willing to be mercenaries for hire to protect the ruling elite from a violent uprising . So with revolution not currently an option, we must make the best of a shitty situation. In this country, however, the best of a shitty situation can still be pretty sweet. In order to get there, you need to know what you’re up against. There are billions of people in developing countries who grew up starving and living in houses with dirt floors, who now have the ability to go to college to study math, science, medicine, electronics, computer technology, and a variety of different kinds of engineering. America isn’t even graduating enough engineers to fill the job openings they soon will have available, with so many baby boomers about to retire. If you expect an easy life to be handed to you the way your parents or older cousins had it, you may be gravely disappointed. You’re going to have to work hard to build a life for yourself. But if you’re going to work hard, you might as well work hard at something that gets you where you want to be in life. So, let’s figure out how to get there.
Most young people have influences in their lives pushing them in some direction, to be a certain way. For example, Dad wants you to join him in the family business, Grandma wants you to go to college, and your brother is having fun in the army… But the world is enormous and there is so much out there to do that most of us haven’t even imagined yet, let alone gotten to experience. Let’s pretend that your parents always shopped at a grocery store that sold only Coke. You would be comfortable and used to a lifestyle of drinking only Coke. In this example, Coke can represent any established routine reaction or attitude that was taught to you. Coke represents tradition. But as you know, there are more flavors than just Coke. There’s more to drink than even just soda. Other aspects of life are just as dynamic. Don’t be afraid to question anything—whether it’s your beliefs, your religion, your priorities, what you value, or anything else that you might follow, simply because someone once told you it was right. How do you know if Coke is really what you want out of life, if that’s all you know?
Even the wisest and most well-read teenagers are still very sheltered  from what else is out there. For a lot of people, that’s just fine. Who cares about knowing everything? Well, you should. This is the age of information. Knowledge is the weapon of choice and will be what separates the greats from the struggling. For a lot of you, there may be backlash within your family or social network for being curious, for looking outside your culture’s traditions. Fuck tradition. It’s not easy to go against the wishes of those you love, but if the right choice wasn’t worth it in the end, it wouldn’t be called the right choice. You may feel alone but many people are going through this. Seek them out so you can support one another.
Open-Mindedness
“Why should I? Everything is just fine as it is.”
Think of politics and religions as the popular kids in high school. One year they’re wearing the new Air Jordan shoes and telling everyone how dope that one song by The Black Eyed Peas is. Everyone else copies them and thinks The Black Eyed Peas is the greatest band on earth. Time goes by and people get really tired of The Black Eyed Peas, and now everyone is wearing Converse. If that popular kid is still bumping that same Black Eyed Peas song and wearing his old kicks, he’s going to look like a loser and people won’t follow him. To keep things fresh , he ditches the Black Eyed Peas first, before anyone else, and starts promoting Lady Gaga. Now he’s sporting Skechers and people are still listening and watching him. By adapting, he’s maintained his popularity and influence over people. What about you? What if you refuse to adapt, and since middle school all you’ve been listening to is LL Cool J and you’re still wearing high-tops with lights in them? How well will you survive in the world that can no longer relate to you? Would you perhaps feel abandoned or even betrayed by what originally got you to support these things so much? This is why solid belief systems fail. To thrive is to survive. Religions, governments, and all other dictators of morality have to adapt and keep current in order to thrive. So do you.
The real world is changing too, with or without your participation. The entire world is now the big melting pot, not just the United States anymore. If a living organism cannot or refuses to adapt to its environment, it will die out. Look up the Red Queen hypothesis. That applies not just biologically to living beings, but it’s even more apparent and rapid in the social forum. It must’ve been a big culture shock for a man in the early 1900s to grow up around wives being beaten with sticks and then suddenly voting alongside them. As his golden years settled in, he got to witness his grandchildren doing drugs and sharing “free love” during the 60s. You can bet that didn’t go over well with a lot of older Americans, who were deeply rooted in Christian tradition. An unwillingness for people to adapt to  their surroundings often brings about a greater misery than one would experience if they just decided to see what’s around them as acceptable, whether they participate actively or not.
Of course, the line must be drawn somewhere, but it’s curious how the line keeps getting pushed further and further forward as time goes on.
There are so many things going on in the world. Each country and culture faces its own unique set of problems and struggles for power. It can all be very confusing and frustrating, so it’s often easier to look to leadership to make decisions for us, instead of trying to weigh each issue ourselves. The easy way is rarely if ever the best way, but after working a 50 hour week to just barely survive, who has the time and energy to think ? Not many of us can do both… which is why hard work is part of the design. Now, what happens when the leadership we look to changes their minds, like the popular kid in school moving onto the next big thing? Science, government, and religion all make attempts to adapt to the ever-changing world . Adaptations in government and religion are based on public opinion, so they can always remain popular and in control. Examples include governments extending rights to women, immigrants, and laborers, changing attitudes towards other countries, and amending controversial laws . They sure didn’t want to do any of it, and certainly didn’t agree ideologically with it, but many labor strikes, demonstrations and movements pressured the politicians to give the people what they wanted. Slavery wasn’t ended because it was “the right thing to do”; it was ended because more soldiers were needed to fight in the Civil War. The Catholic Church has amended its stances on contraception and consequences for queer behavior, to remain aligned with the growing sympathetic feelings towards these issues by the public.  You used to get burned alive for such things, remember? Governments and religions never admit to being wrong, cruel, or shortsighted. They don’t change because they discover a better idea. There have always been better ideas out there. They only change when their survival requires it. Why do they wait so long?
If you believe in political or religious institutions dictating to you what is right and wrong, important and useless, proper and obscene, how do you react when they change their minds? Why do they change their minds, if the whole time they said they knew what was best? Suddenly something else becomes best, and NOW they know what’s best, once and for all? Doubtful. It’s just a way to control your mind so you don’t realize how badly you’re being fucked over.
Religion and government are mentioned separately, but they are two sides of the same coin, which forever has been a partnership, recognized on some legal levels and completely elusive on others. The truth is, Church and State are not at all separate. They work together, which is why religious institutions do not have to pay any taxes. There are many examples of this easily seen, but it’s so normal, many people do not even realize what is happening. For example, a preacher is required to marry people, even atheists. You must swear on a Bible when under oath in a courtroom, as if that still means something. Politicians utter, “God bless America” as if we’re totally fucked beyond repair without some sort of divine intervention. If God is handing out blessings, it seems like America already got more than its fair share, being the top economy and having one of the highest per capita incomes in the world, no? But when politicians are speaking about foreign policy, they never seem to mention, “God bless Iceland” or “God bless the Northwest Territories through another harsh winter blizzard.” No, he’s always our God, and apparently has only a limited amount of blessings and we need them all. If God gave his blessings out to everyone, they wouldn’t be blessings anymore. They’d lose their value. But really, if God was so easily controlled, like a claw machine at a cheap diner, and all it took was a public figure to make a request for a blessing in order to actually get one, how much value or impact could that blessing possibly have in our lives? Probably nothing more than what you could actually get out of one of those claw machines. The truth is, several conflicts of opinion are created intentionally to keep people arguing and fighting over insignificant things so they can’t stay focused on what really matters .
“Ok fine, I sort of get it, but what is being open-minded then and how do I do it?”
To become open-minded, you must first be aware of what the difference is. Essentially, it is a structure for world views and beliefs. A person who is open-minded constantly seeks and considers new information, scientific developments, and alternative perspectives– such as how you think of your role as a human being on planet Earth, how you view the world as both a home for humans and as a living being itself, and what, if any, superstitions, myths, or religious teachings hold any value in following. To a degree, the popular kid in high school was the open-minded one, who wasn’t afraid to take a chance on something new. Open-mindedness is often found in people who are interested in philosophy, sociology, and music . An open-minded person understands that his or her beliefs are just ideas, and that there’s no real way to prove most of them. Open-minded people are willing to accept others’ differences of opinion and preference. Above all, they seek to learn as much as possible and continue to grow. People who are not open-minded believe they have all the answers, that their way is the right way , and that their way of life is under constant threat from those who are different. People who follow this sort of short-sightedness are the religious, traditional, and simple-minded individuals who make up the mass population.
There is a conflict between members of both ideologies. A close-minded individual has been taught from a young age what to believe, what is important, what is justice, and the consequences for having a different opinion . It is an entire culture that follows the idea, “Change is scary; if everything stays the same, we’ll all be okay.” The downfall is that if everything stays the same, we all decay. It is an emotional wish for simplicity, but the reality is that energy is always transforming and that in itself is what life is… the adapting, the changing, the transforming. Without it, in a way you are already dead. It might be possible to socially stay still, if every single person in the planet wanted the same things out of life, but that’s impossible. Even if you conquer a country’s control and currency, you can never stamp out the imaginations of the entire human population. You might as well begin to learn acceptance.
To be open-minded is to consider things from other perspectives before making a judgment. For instance, we look at homosexuality and most people still find it somewhat disgusting on a personal level, but there is a growing understanding that people who practice it are not crazy, cross-dressing freaks, or sexual perverts, or rapists. While a small number of those kinds of people just mentioned also may have certain homosexual tendencies or similarities, more exposure and education is making the rest of the world realize that the majority of homosexuals function with the same basic values, habits, and desires the rest of us have, and should not be discriminated against, let alone murdered, set on fire, or subjected to “corrective rape” . If it makes them happy, and it doesn’t hurt you, why can’t you let them do what they want to do? It bothers you? There’s no right to not be offended. There’s no right to not be bothered. The perspective, “only one way is the right way” is what makes what they do bother you in the first place.
Open-mindedness is more than tree-hugging hippie shit. It’s the process of determining which tree-hugging hippie shit is a good idea and what is just an overblown attempt to act important when we’re really insignificant. It’s sitting down and thinking, “Is Afghanistan/Iran/Iraq really a threat to national security and democracy? How…?” Upon further debate, an open-minded person could come to the conclusion that, yes, certain individuals located there may pose a threat, but not a suppressible threat, like fighting against an invading army. Any country certainly has individuals capable of mailing an explosive or trying to hijack a ship or plane. We can’t invade them all. Is spending billions of dollars a year over there more important than using that money to either lower our taxes or send every kid to college, to keep our country from losing the rest of its tech industry to Asia? Some people might prefer to risk the security of a couple thousand lives once a decade or so, to save millions of good-paying jobs. Besides, what’s the guarantee that one terrorist won’t get through and kill a couple thousand people anyway, once a decade or so? Before you go running off reasons you heard on CNN for going over there, remember that we’re friends with Russia, China, and Cuba, all of whom your parents felt the same way you do about Iraq and Afghanistan, back when the government was demonizing those countries and cultures instead. George Orwell’s 1984 is the perfect depiction of how the government always seems to have an enemy to fight against so you’re always in support of it, never realizing that for centuries, government itself was the enemy of the people, until it found a way to deflect attention. You can discover the real history of things by going to your local bookstore and checking out many of the books written on American history that you’ve never heard or seen before. Much of it is very mind-blowing.
Don’t take all of that on the previous paragraph to heart; it’s just an example. You’re more than welcome to conclude that killing all “ragheads” is the best formula for a better world and only 1/4th of the world’s population would disagree. Getting emotionally involved in politics, one way or another, is a losing battle because there are much more important things in life than arguing. The brain is like a muscle; the more you use it, the stronger it gets. Having it process information seems like a lot of work, just like building a house, but once you do it a couple times it doesn’t seem so hard after that. You don’t even necessarily have to get rid of your beliefs and opinions to get started. Just don’t react with hostility when any of them get brought into question. Consider other points of view; experiences other people share with you that you’ve never had.  Ask yourself this: “Is what I believe to be proper really what I want to have in my life?” Besides, all religions tell you to love one another. The world could use more two-way streets, regardless of what language or color the street signs are in.
Breaking The Mold
Once you have opened your mind, the fuse is lit for the critical stage of transition. Make note of the diction here. This is not a change, for change is an instantaneous occurrence. This is a transition. It takes time to fully happen. This transition consists of many changes. Your habits will change. Your goals will change. Your opinions and beliefs will change. With these changes, inevitably you’re bound to start drifting towards whatever other like-minded individuals you meet. For you, and all the others you will meet, this is your first real chance at finding out who you are. Throw everything you think you know out the window, it no longer applies.
During this time period, reflective thinking will be absolutely necessary. You need to take time to stop, look back, analyze your new experiences, and find what lessons there are to learn in each of them.  Your resolve will be tested. It will be broken and strengthened at different times. Bad things will happen to even the most careful person. What matters is not how well you can hide, but how well you can heal. Healing is a process of remembering truth and your own self amidst the thick cloud of pain that speaks only in extremes . If you’re unable to predict your own reaction to things before they happen, at least take the time to examine your reaction to things after they happen.  The most well-rounded, developed people are the ones who look within themselves, using objective analysis  instead of condemnation or denial of responsibility. After living it up, you’ll need to schedule some time for sleep. Don’t pace your life so quickly that you’re always busy. This is important, in order to notice the small changes happening and to stay aware of your transition.
Growing up, it is likely you were sheltered, lied to, and simply left out of a lot that goes on in the world. It’s an insane process, parenting is: Control your kid his whole life, make all the decisions for him, and then send him out on his own and expect him to know what to do… and be his own person. Fifty years ago, it was fine, because the kids just mimicked their parents’ logic and were happy to  grow up as a spitting image of their predecessors. That doesn’t work anymore. In order to become independent and establish your own identity, you must begin sifting out what was taught to you as truth, right, wrong, fair, unfair, necessary, and possible.
The bulk of what we’re taught as children is outdated information, because the recent generations before us have grown up and created an entirely new world to learn how to deal with. The wars of the 1960s and 1970s led to the inflation of the 1980s and 1990s, free trade and a global economy , which has made it nearly impossible to afford to move out on your own at 18 now. However, a lot of parents still expect to be rid of their kids when they turn that age. Good luck.
You must identify obsolete ideas and disregard them and their instructions. Analyze life by what you see, not by what you hear from other people. Identify someone as trustworthy by how they perceive and analyze things, not by how their intentions seem. Intentions are the most wonderful next-to-worthless things when it comes to learning and growing. A lot of people mean well, but have a much different  idea of what they think will be good for you.
Let’s touch on what you believe for a second. Remember who you were four years ago? Compare what that person knew then to what you know now. Is there a big difference? Now, imagine your future self in another four years of learning, looking back on what you think is the truth now… Right, so don’t take your thoughts so seriously, as they’re obviously going to evolve. When you learn something wonderful and amazing, don’t get comfortable and settle on it. Stay open. Sometimes we’re given a puzzle piece in order to get to the next level. We mistake this as the big picture, but it’s really just a part of a much larger picture. With how vast and complex the physics of the universe are, it is short-sighted to be completely certain that there is a simple answer to it all.
There is too much going on to ever really have it all within a total grasp or understanding, but the zest of life comes in the chase. One of the best memories you will probably enjoy in this life will just be sitting around some sort of object or shape  and having a conversation with a small group of close friends. There is something undeniably fulfilling about being connected to others. It’s hard to operate solely on our own battery packs all of the time.
A lot of people have a mental block of being willing to change, versus staying true to themselves. This is a misunderstanding of what change is. In this case, change refers to a refinement process of what your “self” is, while in turn taking bits and pieces of new things and making them your own. Would you refuse to be potty-trained or taught how to read? These weren’t part of your original self. A lot of people have a misunderstanding of change, afraid that they will lose who they are or “sell out” if they try to grow. Kids these days have lost so much; the last thing they can afford to lose is their identities, so they hold on for dear pathetic life. Kids read about this wonderful America full of opportunity and freedom, but the reality around them just doesn’t match up. Fewer and fewer kids have established a connection with their parents as guides worthy of being trusted. This generation feels alone, and in a way, cheated, for not being able to automatically have the quality of life they expect. Growing up has gotten a really bad connotation to it because of the dumbfuck adults who have ruined the general world, as well as so many individual worlds. The things they do and decisions they make seem so obviously horrible, yet they do them anyway, leaving us youth to wonder why. Unable to yet discern a rhyme or reason for this outcome, we blame the first notable difference between us and them; they’re grown-ups. What happens is that many failures and broken dreams corrupt a person over time, until growing desperateness and selfishness take over, into sort of a survival mode. It doesn’t have to be this way. Don’t drink too much Coke . Stay away from rednecks and anyone else who views change as a negative thing. You might find a few Cherry Cokes on the shelves, but while they have a better taste, remember they’re still Cokes and are going through the same things all the other Cokes are. In this context, you yourself are still some variant of soda, in search of what other flavors you want to mix into you.
Consider your actions similar to a social science experiment. No matter how many times it takes to get it right, a science experiment is declared a success once the desired result is eventually obtained, or the hypothesis in question is verified. Sometimes something completely new and unexpected will occur. So keep trying new and different things until you have found what you really enjoy. Just try things out. Sometimes you’ll even become good friends with people you didn’t like very much at first. Also, you’ll discover new things about life you never paid much attention to before, until you gave them a chance . When you don’t know what you want, a good way to find out is to do all sorts of things to figure out what you don’t want, and just begin scratching things off the list. You’ll narrow your choices down and picking a path will be a lot easier this way.
There are life stages with new rules and roles that you have yet to go through. Even if you have mastered this environment now, there are new ones coming, so don’t be surprised when you wake up one day, feeling completely lost in the world and wondering what the hell just happened. The life stage of an early teen is just figuring yourself out and hoping someone loves you. As a late teen, the life stage is finding out how you fit in with the world and how to make some money to buy things. Your twenties are spent amassing experiences and material belongings. The early thirties are spent maintaining the relationships and property you’ve acquired along the way, until the “mid-life crisis” hits in your mid-thirties, when you get bored with the lack of spontaneity and excitement you experienced in their teens and twenties. That’s when people have kids, in an attempt to vicariously relive their own youth through their children.
You also have different levels to complete, or achievements to earn. In no strict order, they go: knowing yourself, loving yourself, being loved, loving someone else, having sex, graduating high school, buying a car, getting your first job, graduating college, moving out, living alone, buying a house, achieving financial security , getting married, having children, and death.
Narrowing Down Choices
As you pinball from class to class and relationship to relationship, your attitude will fluctuate constantly. Eventually, you will gravitate to and orbit around an altitude and latitude you find most comfortable and true.  This will become the foundation for your world view. Your world view is an important factor because it single-handedly determines how you view your role in it. Some people see the world as a playground for learning. Others see it as a wonderland of nature to be explored. Others yet, see it as an infestation of greed and human filth that needs to be exterminated. You can view the world as a political entity, a biological entity, a psychological entity, or even just a tiny mote of dust in a great big universe. The choice is up to you.
Once you have settled on a world view, you can then discover how you fit into it. Are you meant to be part of the work force to produce a product? Are you just another animal who will follow instinct to reproduce and survive? Are you better suited for research and development of the human consciousness? Is your life about the pursuit of happiness, or is it maintaining balance between positive and negative to achieve inner and outer harmony? Or, is it, you know, just fussing like piglets trying to get as much from their mother’s nipple as possible? Decisions like these are important. The relief comes in knowing that they’re not decisions you can only make once. College is an excellent forum for aiding in these decisions because you can explore several avenues a few blocks at a time and see what really interests you, as you get more in-depth information instead of just imagination. When you finally get it right, you will undoubtedly achieve a great level of maturity because you will finally start to live up to your true potential. Once this has occurred, one generally feels an intense sense of peace, purpose, and inner happiness; some call it being enlightened, some refer to it as finding one’s destiny, others might think it has something to do with being one with God or the universe. It’s all the same stuff coming from different perspectives, really. Your pitiful Intro to Psychology book refers to it as self-actualization.
The biggest change, which you are well aware of by now, is the difference in lifestyle. Your life, while still structured, has a lot more flexibility . However, there is also a lot more to do now. You have to work now. It’s not just homework. You have to meet people. Chat rooms, forums, and online games aren’t acceptable mediums anymore. For passing the time, maybe, but nothing replaces face-to-face experience with a real person.
And in addition to the myriad of new people out there, you also have to be by yourself for a while and handle your responsibilities. Of course, it can be extremely overwhelming to have so much to do and so much to balance. If this is relevant, you should try having an hourly calendar. You’ll actually get to see the blocks of free time you have during the day and can make yourself most productive. It might seem confining at first, but here’s what’s really going on: all your time is really free time. What you’re doing by planning your activities is filling portions of that free time with important stuff to do, to achieve the end that you actually get stuff done. So it’s a lot like setting a few different alarms, with both a start and an end time. That’s really all there is to it. The end result of this will be valuing your time a lot more than you ever imagined you could.
How to Make Good Decisions
The game of chess is an incredibly accurate representation of how real life works. Like a good chess player, you should always remember your ultimate goal, when deciding your moves . The real trick is knowing how to think logically.
Logic is a system designed to ensure an individual’s well-being, except in unforeseen events. Logic is a social math that allows you to presume what will happen next, based upon what has already happened . Logic also allows you to analyze what just happened in an attempt to better understand it . The more thought-out your logic is, the fewer unforeseen events there are. Plenty of bad shit still happens, but you get better at preparing for it. Other people use their intuition instead of logic, but with intuition, you either have it working well for you or you don’t. Logic however, can be learned.
In chess, basic strategy is to string together a series of moves to influence your opponent to react in a way that will allow you to reach your goal. It is complicated, and you must always be aware of what is going on. Your thoughts must always revolve around your goal, and each of your moves should be planned out. For example:
Goal: To find just an ol' somebody to be your partner.
Move 1: Learn to love one's own self… you know, as practice. Jack your heart off so you don't bust too soon when it matters. Nothing is worse than appearing desperate.
Move 2: Learn what attracts the opposite sex, in order to open up more options.
Move 3: Earn good income, be in good shape physically and mentally.
Move 4: Ask out anyone and everyone to dinner and conversation. You never know what lies beneath their public persona.
Move 5: Learn from everything that goes wrong, whether it’s your mistake or someone else’s. There is always something noteworthy.
Move 6: Begin filtering out results through a series of personal observations and tests, until you find the right blend of character , personality , and compatible life goals. 
Move 7: Love Mr./Mrs. Filtered Result with every ounce of your soul. Pay attention to his or her specific needs and learn how to show him or her love in the ways he or she best receives it, NOT the way you're most comfortable showing it.
Move 8: Don't suck in bed .
This is the move chart you sit down with. A logical thinker plans many steps ahead of their current position, with probable outcomes charted ahead, with pre-determined steps and reactions. Just daydream awhile… picture what your life would be like the way you want it. Then ask yourself what is needed to get there and work backwards to figure it out. For instance, you want a big house in the mountains and three children. Cool, you better have an income near triple figures. So you have to either start your own business or get a college degree in a trade or field that has a lot of cash flowing through it, like auto parts or real estate. In order to initially fund either of those, you have to work all the time and save your money. Of course, life can change course at any time, and that's where character and personality have their time to shine . Logical thinking is critical to making good decisions. Logic is the crazy straw that allows your lips to connect to the liquid inside the cup of life from which you drink. Without logic, you will head-butt the cup, and fuck your own face. For those drinking out of bowls, you will drown.
Now it's time to take a look at particular flaws in logic that will throw glitches into the system.
A common mistake is to use what is referred to as “judgment” instead of analysis. A judgment is “this is bad/good.” Analysis is “this action causes this effect, because” or “this is, because.” A fundamental flaw of thinking today is the belief that everything must either be bad or good. Some things are neutral, and their application can make them one or the other. For example, you can use a chair to sit on or as a weapon to beat someone up with. The chair itself is still neutral. You will experience a lot of situations that can be examined under this chair theory. The “because” is your quest to discover. Everything has a reason. However, the reason is not always good, logical, or sensible. Sometimes reasons may stay unknown for a long period of time or even eternity. You can say to yourself, “This is the way it is because of reasons unknown,” as opposed to “I don’t know” or “there is no reason for this at all and life must be total chaos.” You end up feeling a lot less confused and helpless if you learn to construct your thoughts better. Now that that’s out of the way, here’s a side note: Do not draw conclusions on what you do not understand. For instance, don't decide that all Muslims are any crazier than other religious people just because they're Muslim. Unless you've been a part of the religion yourself, or are some sort of religious scholar, you probably don't really know what goes on—just what other ignorant people tell you. It's not a harmless assumption; major wars have been waged over condemning other people for doing things that weren't understood at the time. Another even more common mistake is to only view the immediate or short-term effects of a decision, and to ignore or not even realize the long-term repercussions. Examples of this can be found everywhere, from new laws or bills being signed, to drug abuse, one-night stands and the decision to cheat on your significant other. A temporary solution is not really a solution. More often than not, it just creates other problems.
After considering your own long-term goals, there are other things to contemplate before taking action. You must understand the repercussions of your decision for all people involved, as well as society as a whole. For example, if your long-term goal is wealth, you may decide robbery is the path to take . It’s easier than working hard day after day. The only investment is a few hundred dollars in a gun. However, the negative consequences far outweigh the positive. It’s guaranteed that you’ll be caught eventually, or someone else will have a gun too. Aside from the obvious risks to your own safety and possible imprisonment, other people may be hurt or killed in your attempt at reaching your goal through this means. Do you truly find that to be an acceptable working environment?
A good benchmark for an idea is to ask yourself how society would function if lots of people suddenly decided to do what you wanted to do at any given instant. If everyone were to start robbing each other at once, you would not have your wealth. It would be taken from you, or someone else would have attacked your target first. Other good benchmarks to check with are: “Will my action cause anyone considerable physical or emotional harm that will leave lasting damage? Would I proudly include the story of my action in a TV biography about myself? What has happened to others who did what I'm about to do?”
How To Think Logically
Logical thinking is your elephant gun in this crazy jungle. Clutch it for dear life and never let go.
“Fuckin’ logic, how does it work?”
Well, in order to think logically, you must also have a sense of morality . A morality acts like an organism that produces right and wrong, in reference to one's own world view. For example, let's say you believe the world to be a good place that values happiness. When faced with decisions, you will analyze what your choices are and select the one that most closely goes along with your world view. In this case, the right decision is whatever makes people the happiest. It is a logical decision for your world view. However, someone else's world view might be that life should always be as fair as possible. The choice that makes people closest to happy might feel wrong to this person, because certain people may not get enough of what they deserve, while others may get more than what they deserve. What this all really means is, logic is relative to the morality, which dictates its priorities. Does this make all decisions logical in some way?
Hell no.
Too many decisions are made based on emotion… often, a negative emotion; fear or anger. Because an emotion is more of a chemical occurrence than anything, it cannot be trusted as a source of sense or truth. It is not thought-out or examined, and has no real references to support it. It is simply just there. No decisions should be made when under the influence of intense emotion. A good outcome has the same chance of happening as just making a random guess. This doesn’t just apply to pre-maturely burning bridges in anger. A positive emotion also creates senseless action, such as happily spending a lot of money on a party because you won a little bit at the blackjack table.
History also cannot always be trusted, when looking back upon it as a reference for possible outcomes in a situation. While it's valuable to contemplate whether history could repeat itself, it must also be factored-in that most scenarios are rarely, if ever, exactly the same. The situation could be the same, but the individuals involved and their needs are usually different. Differing present factors prevent history from being a source of answers that can be followed. It can only be used as a reference for what didn't work and why. The why is important to know, so don't leave it out.
The system of logic seems very clear-cut and simple once it’s understood, but apparently getting there is quite a journey. There are several commonly used logical fallacies— broken logic, that appear in every day discussion. They largely go unnoticed. It is important to research these fallacies on your own, to understand what they are. Once you understand them, you will be able to infer the dangers of relying on these arguments.
For a wide range of fallacies with examples, visit http://logicalfallacies.info or for even more, http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_fallacies.
Wow, that’s a lot of confusion, isn’t it? These are wild and rampant in political arguments, debates, newspaper articles, and plenty of other places where important decisions are made by people with power. How can people who don’t think logically make proper decisions based on priority assessment without ruining the world around them? Hmm… looks like they can’t.
Since logic is a tough system for the uninitiated to pick up, it requires extensive explanation that is too much to fit into one chapter. If you can’t think logically, the best you can do is make your decisions using common sense.
Common Sense
When someone refers to using ‘common sense’, it usually means to take a step back and analyze the situation as simple as possible. Now and then, we try to bend our interpretation of reality to make what we want seem more possible or more favorable than it really is. We do this in order to ‘make the best of the situation’, ‘think positive’, or just to plain old bullshit ourselves and others into a certain way of perceiving things. Common sense is the removal of this bullshit to see things for what they are, and what their exact intended purpose is. For instance, even though hand sanitizer contains alcohol, you would be exercising common sense not to try to drink it to get drunk as if it was Everclear. If multiple groups of people are asking you to hang out with them, use common sense to make your decision. Common sense would suggest that if there is some reason everyone can’t all hang out together, spend some time with each group that day .  Sometimes there are situations that seem like no option will end up well. In this case, common sense suggests going with whatever option causes the least damage to your self and your relationships. Once you start going, “Yeah, but…”and running off a list of details that make the situation complicated, common sense becomes harder and harder to apply. If you’re not adept at logical analysis to understand these complexities, don’t stress out so badly that you can’t make a decision at all. Just keep it simple and let common sense guide you.
Before making a decision, put your options through a series of benchmark tests that will help you determine the wisest course of action. First, apply the garden theory  and analyze which option fits into what part of your garden. Single-out which option will do the most good to all parts of your garden, or remove options that will cause significant trouble to its harmony. Another good benchmark is asking, “In five years, will I be still be doing this?” The visualization of you in five years from now is supposed to project yourself in a more serious, wise, mature state. There should be some merit of honor in everything you do. While it’s a rarity these days, it is the rule that really separates the best people from the rest.
Don’t let other people force you into making a decision you don’t really want to make. This is  your only life. Don’t have a child, if it was a mistake.   Don’t stay in a relationship with someone who you don’t want anymore. It doesn’t matter if they threaten suicide, revenge, or just whine endlessly. It’s not going to work anyway, it’ll have to end some day, and there will be all that more time wasted and a partially-built life to just toss in the trash when it finally all collapses. In a world where some children are forced to rape and murder one another for the amusement of others, your unwillingness to stand up for yourself under much less crazy circumstances is the kind of weakness that must be mended.
Bonus Level !!
Answer these questions to gain extra life, or rather, quality of life. Like any good video game, there are always extra challenges and rewards out there for those who search carefully . Do you have what it takes?
How do you react to challenges? For example, do you rise to the occasion or shy away from confrontation? Get in touch with your own method and see how well it gets you to where you want to be. If this is too difficult at first, think of  close friends or relatives. Do their problem-solving methods effectively resolve their issues? If not, how wise is it to stick with their methods that don’t work?
Which speaks louder, your thoughts or your feelings? Which stream of information do you believe more?
Do you believe your intuition  is always right? How would you go about testing this?
How often do you question the way things are? Do you ever question yourself? At first it might seem a bit unnecessary, but the more you learn to question, the more you learn about yourself and what is really important to you.
Why is it that so many older and middle-aged people are often cold and selfish? Is it a mass personality defect, or is it some specific experiences in life that have beaten them into that mindset? What are some of these experiences? How do you plan to avoid ending up this way?