Got a ride with my friends, still don't have a car
Dropped off while they hit the mall
Really caught my eyes from afar
Looked away, no high's worth the fall
I ain't tripping. Then I heard her talk. Sounded smart
She on my radar like sonar
Got me thinking what's a movie without a co-star?
Just know that I'll only go so far
Cuz sin dangerous, can't afford a close call
So before I approached had caution
Friend zone like a dead zone, Chris Walken
Cuz guys want the end-zone early like the Falcons
I only want the ring like there's 12 on my back
I'm tryna win the game fair, that's my plan of attack
We both got a past, but we can't take it back
What's the point in fast if it don't last?
Got questions but perhaps it's your name I should ask. Hey
I know that the feeling is right, and I don't ever want you to leave me
Just know that we can't do it twice, it twice
Your friends all give you advice, but do you believe me?
Cuz I don't want it just for tonight. Tonight. Oh I
From a distance hard to read your intentions
So I stayed away, found an exit in case
This building set fire. She thinking, you're crazy
Word to Mali, it gets hard little lady
Wanna know your goals, do you got ambition?
Say you wash dishes tryna pay off tuition
Like to stay home, do you go to church?
Nowadays everybody christian but their timeline isn't
Friends don't connect if the wifi's missing
Are you not afraid to speak but prefer to listen?
Need the type of girl to enrich me
Do you prefer the broke me or the rich me?
Not that I'm getting paid
Some want you making change; girl I'm tryna make a change. Can you relate?
Would you see me different if you saw me on stage?
If I dont ever make it would you look at me the same? Dang
Girl just went and got her nails and her hair did
Come closer, let me share what them nails did
Got them thick curls
Want a man that can give the whole world
Can't guarentee yet, yeah I'll say it polite
Nah I ain't tryna stay for the night
Let me take it slow, get it right
If you wanna be mine, then I'm digging for the diamonds in your mind
AO
We still talking, can't help but feel amazing
It's crazy what you find when you're not chasing
Can't even lie my heart racing
She hide her body, but her conversation enough to fascinate me
As my mind on her eyes. A vibration rings loud
My ride. Says it's time, bout to meet you outside
I text back, did you really have to pull up right now?
Apologize and say it's nice to meet her. She just smiles
Figure I should ask if I could write her number down
She frowned and said, sorry I don't really give that out
Deflated. Stupid thinking she would take the time
Turn to leave 'til she says, Wait, never mind
Could she be the one? Only time will tell
Is it God's will? Pray that I'm prepared
Wish I could tell her how I feel, and how well the night went
If we ever fall in love, give my life, thats a price well spent
Forget a night, she the type to spend your life with
Tell my homie and he say her reputation straight
She nice and her faith strong. She don't ever fake
Can't believe, stumbled on a girl with the right traits
As the car drives further I can barely feel the brakes
All of a sudden, somewhere my body seems to shake
As I wake, reach my alarm, it's 8:15
Dawg I really can't believe it was a dream
Girl of my dreams