Instructions
*BEFORE ALL OTHER THINGS*
DO NOT, I REPEAT, DO NOT LISTEN TO THIS IF YOU HAVE 0 PATIENCE; I UNDERSTAND IT HAS NO LYRICS, BUT YOU DID SIGN UP FOR THIS. BARE WITH IT WITH ME, WE BOTH MIGHT LEARN SOMETHING.
Alright, so there's 3 ways to listen to this album. You can
either...
-pair it up with the story below.
-pair it up with the concepts below.
-say "Nigga fuck you mean? It's just a beat tape." and just listen to it casually like a normal person.
Also, I understand the feeling of sitting there listening to
the same damn pattern for 10 minutes straight, so that's
why I made sure every beat has a variation so it doesn't
get repetitive. Plus, a few have beat changes, so watch
out for those.
*Excuse any future typos
Story
Nights  starts playing, you're in a dark room with blue
and white streaks zooming around you and all you see is a purple entity
with the voice of an old white guy talking towards your
direction. You can make out some of the shit he's saying,
but it seems as if every time you start tuning in to
what it's saying, the music in the background gets louder
and throws you off, almost intentionally. Now you're struggling
to decide whether or not you want to listen to the entity or
the music. The music makes it clear that it wants you listen to it as ifthe music had a mind of it's own.
It's almost impossible to listen to the entity now unless you really focused, because the music is so absurd.
And then you finally realize... Ya Not Even In This Fuckin' Story. *blacks*
A DUDE WAKES UP and immediately starts getting ready for the day as if he's
just sure what's to come today. He gets dressed, in what we would think if we
seen him physically, his best clothes, brushes his teeth with Crest toothpaste,
combs his hair using MAD Mane N' Tale Detangler product, puts on Dove lotion,
grabs his keys, and heads the f*ck out the house. *scenes*
There's a Dodge Charger parked outside a Winchell's across the street from a Rally's
 and a McDonald's. The dude walks out with a baker's dozen of donuts and a Nestle's Chocolate Milk.
He always gets a baker's dozen of donuts and a Nestle's Chocolate Milk on Saturday mornings.
As he's heading towards the Charger, he looks up as a plane flys overhead. You can hear
a couple walking by murmur how low it looked/sounded when it flew by. He looks back at his car
with a confused then relieved look on his face. He shakes off this moment then gets in his car
to start heading towards Corbin & Jenny's pad . *scenes*
THE DUDE PULLS UP in front of their house. Then he heads toward the door... Donut$ and chocolate milk in hand...
key lanyard hanging out in left pocket. He's greeted at the door with hugs, handshakes, and loud cartoon
vibrations coming from the Samsung flatscreen TV in the living the room next to them.
Him, Corbin & Jenny laugh and talk for what seems like hours as they wait for Lonny (they're friend; I'll let you
decide the race/gender) to show up. Corbin gets a text from Lonny saying to open the door.
As Corbin opens the door, Jenny  follows him out the door eagerly and they don't
break stride walking towards the dude's car. Corbin hands Lonny a donut as they head towards the dude's car.
They all get in the car (The dude: driver seat; Jenny: passenger; Corbin: backseat behind the dude;
Lonny: backseat behind Jenny) and Corbin asks for the aux cord. He was ready to play some heat... and his
mixtape. *scenes*
*Montage Time*
The sun goes down as graduates start straddlin'
The line between the real world and the one's they called mannequins
Bag handles slip out of man-i-cured's hand damages
McDonalds should start askin "pape" or "plastic" and...
As they reminisce in front of the baristas
I come back from the bathroom, ready to take pictures
They pile up and *click* "yup... that instant Insta-grati"
Notifications pourin' in and Up like Downey Back stage @ the Grammy's
Rights to Patty for Le Bell thats rattling fastly in my mental,
Grasping breasteses and tit for tatting with a simple
Temple tasking... Where are the priorities? "They're hiding at this party up in Hollywood."
The sorcery. I don't know about you guys, but it's 8:26 and I don't want this Night to be over with. It might lead to demise or extreme fun
I Don't Give A Shit.
But Then You & I Finally Realize, I'm Not Even In This Fuckin' Story. *blacks*
The dude and all his friends are driving on a nicely lit bridge/freeway, heading to a mansion party.
It's a full Moon out that Night.
Jenny is staring out the window at the lights and up at the stars, having one of those indie short film moments
and sh*t. Corbin is on Instagram blowing up a female named Kaitlyn's profile with mad likes. She the type
of female to find this HIGHLY attractive. Would maybe even screenshot it and call it a "relationship goal".
Lonny is eating a bag of Takis with a Raspberry Brisk on standby in the cupholder. The dude is 2 and 10, singing along  to the
song playing  with a half-empty/half-filled Strawberry-Kiwi Arizona on standby in the cupholder.
Even though the dude is singing along to the song out loud, it seems as if the music isn't even on. It seems real silent.
As If Everyone's In Their Own Little World. As the song fades out, the dude notices the silence and attempts to liven up the car.
One thing leads to another and they all end up in a roast battle. The dude ends up calling Jenny a fake ass Lisa Left Eye Lopez
(It wasn't that they were mad or not feeling the party idea or anything at first, they just finally calmed down and took a breather
since their Day out. No matter how old you get, or wherever you are, you always need a moment to yourself to breath and think.
*Chance The Rapper's Voice* I drink water and photosynthesize). *scenes*
THE DUDE and his friends pull up to a In-N-Out drive thru so they won't have to eat/drink anything at the party and run the risk of
getting drugged. The party is not too far away at this point. The dude orders a Double-Double with fries, Jenny gets the same without
the fries, Corbin gets a milkshake, and Lonny gets a 4x4 meal. As they wait for their food in the parking lot, they use that time
prep their selves for the party. Them and a lady still sitting in the drive thru are the only ones there, so the dude turns the volume
of the music up loud, grabs Jenny's hand and sits on the hood of the car with her as they have a side conversation. Lonny and
Corbin sing along and trade between parts of the song the dude turned up . After that goes off, an instrumental
comes on . Corbin hears the first milisecond of it & loses it. He runs up to the dude & starts freestyling/dancing at him.
Jenny and Lonny laugh hysterically at it. The dude replies with his own freestyle/dance but kills him off when he says
"he a vegetarian but wanna bring the beef, you show yo' kids this nigga's face so that they start to brush they teeth". They all go wild.
Corbin and the dude shake hands and they all start dancing to the rest of the beat. After a minute or two, the dude and Jenny look
at each other simultaneously and hug up. They kiss. *Imagine all that  in slow motion/scenes*
*Criminal Intent  Starts Playing/A Biker Gang Rides Down A Familiar Freeway Conversing Casually*
Shane : I want grub and b*tches. *In The Raspiest Voice*
Nolan: Hmm. I also could go for a good triple B.
Pip: What the f*ck is a triple B?
Nolan: Burger, B*tch and Beverage bruh!?! *They all laugh*
Pip: Do ya' want fries with that? *They all laugh again*
Shane: Come on, there's an In-N-Out right down this next exit. I'm sure they have EVERYTHING we want.
*That from behind shot shows, like in car movies when they're moving fast and- fuck it, Nevermind*
The bikers pull up to the In-N-Out parking lot. The dude and his friends are all eating their food in the same positions
they were before the rap battle incident .
The dude and his friends being caught up in their activities don't notice the looks being given to them by the bikers.
Predominantly in Jenny's direction. Shane and the bikers make their orders to the mobile waitress (you know, the bitch/nigga
that takes your order in line when there's a good amount of people in line at the drive thru) for what seems like 2 seconds
then head in the dude and Jenny's direction. At the same time, Corbin tells Jenny and the dude that he's getting messages left and
right from people excited to see them show up to the party. Shane interrupts him as he saying that last part and says "F*ck a party,
I want the b*tch on my bike in 5." He turns around and starts heading to his bike as Pip and Nolan replace where he just was with
balled up fist poses and sinister smirks on their faces. These niggas thought that they were in the f*cking Ginyu Force.
The dude, not having it, stands up and clutches Jenny closer with Corbin and Lonny postioning their selves beside them. Shane returns 5 minutes
later with 0 hesistation in his eyes to turn up. This is the part when Krystal Alley starts playing and all hell breaks loose after a stare-off.
The dude is fighting Shane one on one, Corbin is fighting Pip, Jenny is panicking and debating whether or not to help or call the cops, and Lonny and Nolan are no where to be found. That quick.
The dude and Shane are a equal match-up and aren't letting up, Pip thought he had Corbin but Jenny comes in and "helps a brotha' out" by hitting Pip
with the car, and Lonny and Nolan is still nowhere to be found. Shane realizes they're starting to lose so he pulls out a gat & shoots 4 shots in the air and says
"I'VE. HAD. ENOUGH... I. AM. A MAN... GIVE ME THE B*TCH NOW BEFORE I PUT A ROUND IN YO PUNK *SS." An In-N-Out waitress from behind says
"Soooo, did you want tomatooo oorrr?" Shane sighs and turns around and replies "Yes Francine. I would like tomato." Francine replies
"Okay, Super! Your total'll be $8.67" Shane says "Ooooh, I only got 8, *turns around to the dude* Do you have .67 cent?" The dude reaches in his pocket
and walks over and hands em .75 cent. Shane says "Thanks fam, you a real one, i'll be right back." then runs over to the waitress and says
"Sorry, I was sort of in a hurry the first time we came over!" Francine replies "Oh it's okay, that happens a lot here hahaha *Shane laughs with her*
but *With the most serious face* don't let that shit happen again nigga... you're order number 114." Shane nervously replies "O- Okay" and runs back to
the same position he was before Francine interrupted. Shane says "Where were we? uhh... oh yeah, GIVE ME THE B*TCH, NOW!" The dude looks at Corbin
on his left. Corbin nods. Jenny honks the horn loud as sh*t  as the dude takes off to his right towards the dumpsters. Corbin rushes Shane
and has one of those fight scene moments where they fight for the gun and the bad guy drops it. Lonny comes around the corner with Nolan on ...
tail. Jenny gets out the car, scoops up the gun, looks around, and then starts running towards Lonny . Corbin & Shane are rolling
around all on the floor trading blows in between positions . Jenny gets at a close distance, tells Lonny to hit the deck and then
shoots Nolan in the shoulder. Everyone stops when they hear the gunshot. Shane pushes Corbin off him and runs to his aid (Which is weird because
Pip is still on the floor recuperating from the car hit he just took and Shane didn't even flinch in his direction). At this point you could hear the cops coming.
The dude comes running back and tells everyone to get in the car. They all hop in and flea the scene. Shane puts Nolan on his shoulder and tells Pip "Wake
yo' hurt *ss up, we gotta get out of here!" Then Francine walks up behind him and says "Here's you're Animal Syle 4x Fo-" "B*TCH, DOES IT LOOK LIKE I NEED A BURGER
RIGHT NOW!?!... Cause I hope I do, a nigga hungry. Pip quit b*tchin' about your broken rib cage and grab my food, the cops are co-... *That siren
sound you hear when cops pull up/their faces start flashing red and blue* ming...
Francine: I'm Sorry, But Did You Want Fries With That Sir? *scenes*
CORBIN IS PUMPING gas while Lonny is leaning on the car drinking a V8 Fusion Juice. Bishop Nehru- You Stressin' is playing loud (it's fading out while
Tyler The Creator- Rusty is next in the queue) from the aux. Jenny and the dude are in front of the gas station store door talking about what just happened at In-N-Out.
She's real worked up, but the dude manages to calm her down quickly. He asks if she wants anything out of the store before they go. Jenny looks at the car, Lonny, and Corbin;
then inside the glass window of the store  then looks back at the dude and nods her head yes with an intimate look in her eyes.
He opens the door for her while she walks in  and follows her to the drink aisle. The dude observes Jenny looking for her drink 
and realizes she keeps inching to the right... towards the bathroom. At this point she's a step a way from the bathroom and kneeling "looking for the gatorades", but that swiftly
turns into a stealth walk with the dude's hand in her hand. You would think at this point the cashier would get suspicious of thievery happening in his store, but somehow it just
worked in their favor this time. Like God was like "Go head lil niggas". They sneak into the bathroom and fuck and suck and such for what seems like an hour... okay it was an hour.
. They come out the bathroom looking like brand new people and readjust their clothing. Jenny grabs a Blue
Gatorade  and Hostess donuts, heads up to the counter and lets the dude buy it, and they walk out the store. Lonny and Corbin are already walking towards
the store  and Lonny asks what took them so long. Jenny blurts out that she went to get donuts. Corbin repeats what she just said
and puts emphasis on Do-Nuts making it sound like doz' nutz. They all laugh and walk back to the car, knowing damn well what just happened. Mac Miller- Thumbalina is playing from the
aux while they get in the car. *scenes*
*RICKY'S PROJECT X TURN UP 20TH BD@Y MANSION PARTY INFO *
WHEN : May 23, 2015
TIME: 9:00pm 
WHERE: 1232 SUNSET PLAZA DRIVE, LOS ANGELES, CA 90069 
BYOB... SIKE N*GGA WE GOT ALL DA BEST BUD ND ALL DA LIQUOR U WNT BRUH!!!! 
THERES GONNA BE NUTHIN BUT FINE THOTIANAS ND ALL MY REAL N*GGAZ 
BE THERE OR BE SQUARE  BE READY TO TURRRNNN TF UUUPPPPP 
ND DNT BRING NO DRAMA EITHER, CUZ WE WILL HAV YO B*TCH ASS ESCORTED TF OUT!!!! ✌️
SEE U THERE!! ✌️
*Plaza Starts Playing*
The dude and his friends roll up into the party in that Charger and everyone goes f*ckin' bananas. The dude whips it in reverse and parks it, and they all get
out and start getting into the groove of what's been going on . This party is intense. It might as well be a concert
the way they have the stage set up with a live band and DJ. They have Reggie Watts, Fun., DJ CR$CNT CVT , and G-Eazy (Ricky's cousin
apparently) as a special guest. There's at least 4-7 jumpers all over the damn place . A pool full of half/fully naked females/dudes, annndd
just about every drug and drink you can think of. (This is the part like on Project X where it shows all the shit that's going on in and outside of the house
and how much fun everyone is having). The amount of Instagram/Snapchat/Facebook/Twitter/Vine posts is ridiculous at this point. The dude and Jenny manage to still
have a great time without all the drugs and alcohol. It's an even bigger plus that they trust each other enough to separate a little during the party and not be afraid
one of em' is going to do something they'd regret. Corbin is all over the place with a blunt on his lips, a cup of PURPLE DRANK, and pussy on his mind for the Night.
He's been in a substantial amount of Instagram/Snapchat/Facebook/Twitter/Vine posts tonight. Lonny is upstairs in the kitchen getting cheered on in a game of beer pong
. Jenny and the dude meet up again upstairs and explore what's going on inside the house. Suddenly, Jenny grabs the dudes hand and runs
outside on to a balcony. They soak in the beautiful view of the LA city lights that everyone's been neglecting. Even Ricky his self has neglected it and he lives
there. Typical rich person). An hour and 45 minutes have went by  since the dude
arrived but it still feels early into the party. Everything at this point is going great. Barely any fight incidents, no drinks thrown at b*tches faces...
Guess you could say tonight is a good Night... *blacks*
EERR, THIS AIN'T NO ICE CUBE SONG, OF COURSE SOME SH*T BOUT TO POP OFF BRUH
Shane: GET THE F*CK OUT THE CAR BITCH *Waving a pistol into a car window*
Pip: *Throws a husband and wife out the car on to the street*
*They both get in slamming the doors hard as shit and zoom off*
(Oh you didn't think they were going to jail did you? Oh no, they're white.
They got a pat on the wrist and a "Don't let me catch you boys again, alright?")
Shane: That stupid *ss b*tch! I'm gonna murder her and all those little f*ckin'
pieces of sh*t!!
Pip: It looked like the bullet hit Nolan in the shoulder, not his heart!
Shane: Even if it did hit his shoulder, we all three would've came back and
made sure these b*tch *ss niggas got what they deserved!
Pip: You god damn right!!
Shane: I WILL AVENGE MY BROTHER, IF IT'S THE LAST THING I DO!
Pip: Let's Murk these niggas!... But wait... Where are they at?
Shane: *Stops the car* ...You're right. They can't possibly be at the In-N-Out still...
Pip: Ooh! The In-N-Out, remember when we first walked up on em!?!
Shane: Yeah?
Pip: Didn't they say something about a party!?!
Shane: They did huh?... *Drives off* I got an idea. *scenes*
*Shane and Pip walk into the store and look around; They spot 3 guys grabbing hella cases
of beer*
Shane: Heeyyy, how you guys doin' tonight!?
The 3 guys: What's up bro!  {Good bruh!}
Pip: Oh you guys must be turnin' up tonight!? *points at the beers*
The 3 guys: Hell yeah!  {Yeah we, outchea'}
One of the 3 guys : Yeah, we just came from
this massive *ss mansion party, we came to stock up on some more brewskies
for the after party at my house later on!
Another on of the 3 : Yo. Bad b*tches. Everywhere.
I'm tryin' to bag at least 5 of these hoes so I can have my Summer Wet. and Wild.
If ya' catch my drift *Shakes guy next to him's hand/They all laugh and agree*
The last of the 3 guys : You guys are bikers huh? I see y'all
gotcha' leather jackets poppin'.
Shane: Yeah, well you know... For the b*tches, for the b*tches *They all laugh* Sooo
where'd y'all say this party was at again?
The bucket hat guy: Oh, up on Sunset Plaza, by all the restaurants and stuff!
The tank top guy: After we buy these beers, you could just follow us back up there?
Shane: Oh yeah, cool cool, cool cool.
Pip: We'll be waitin' outside for y'all in the red Nissan, our bikes kinda got lost haha
The bucket hat guy: Hahaha, you guys are wild, alright!
*Shane and Pip walk outside*
Shane: Welp! Looks like somebody else is dying tonight!
Pip: But how do we know THIS is the right party? It's a Saturday during graduation season,
this could be anybody's.
Shane: Nah Pip. I just have a gut feeling this is it. I can smell the fear in that b*tch
that hasn't even settled yet in her from here. And I can hear her little boyfriend shaking
in fear of his knowing that this isn't over.
Pip: ...Riigghhttt... *The 3 guys come out the store*
The button up guy: Y'all ready to roll!?
Shane: Hell yeah, show me where da' b*tches at! *They all laugh and get in their cars*
*scenes*
BACK AT THE PARTY, Reggie Watts is mid-stage with a mic in his hand. He asks who wants to come up and rap battle someone else in the crowd.
Jenny and the dude  bicker for a minute then Jenny pushes the dude onstage and cheers him on to go. The dude and Reggie shake hands
and talk for a minute about fist fighting his girlfriend and his level of nervousness at the moment. Then Reggie calls for one more person to
go against the dude. G-Eazy goes stage right and picks out a dude wearing a green and red flannel wrapped around his waist with a leather
strapback hat on named Kevin. G-Eazy and Reggie tells everyone to give them a round of applause for having the courage to come up onstage.
G-Eazy tells them he needs bars "and not the ones in your pocket you were about to take before you got up here" and Reggie signals CR$CNT and
Fun. to follow his lead. Reggie acts like he's about to sing his song "Social Construct" but him and CR$CNT turntable scratch it off and Reggie
starts beatboxing a drum pattern. Then the bass player from Fun. adds a melodic bass over Reggies's pattern (Everyone ends up helpin' with
the beat as it goes along; You hear CR$CNT do turntable scratches, the piano player from Fun. match the bass' melody, and the drum player from
Fun. do hi-hats on one part; under the instruction of G-Eazy telling them what should be added). Kevin goes first and has a fairly decent verse
. The dude listens to his verse and the reaction he got from the crowd and does some quick
subject matter analyzations. Then he looks at Jenny and sees her nod her head at him and begins to let loose on Kevin.
"Shout out to Mr. Bennett, it's the menace with the dentist problems
Gobblin' up the spinach, with the chicken, then I'm flippin', so professional with it
Impeccable when I finish, I make the beat my fuckin' slave, call that vegetable whippin'
A miracle in the makin', holy as swiss on a pagan
I'll steal the Banks and give it to the poor, leave Tyra for Satan
And to you niggas complainin' bout' how this nigga cant slay em I'll grab the Halo and toss it
Just like I'm Gotenks verse villain. Listen.
Ya' girl is in that kitchen fixin' me a hot plate
Her heart as cold as a hooker's heart on a Sunday
She un-bae'd you to get with a Twitter nigga
Don't worry I'ma expose as soon as we finish dinner, my nigga
We the winner winner chicken head, thot beginner, Kylie Jenner's dub c dub, my handle is "in thots we trust"
My DMs filled with lots of butts and titties from a late night tweet
The freaks come out while boyfriends sleep, and weeks later it's a routine
You say you countin' green, well me too its too much all over you, with red nigga?
Ya' look like Christmas skeeted all over you, the overview is all of those bitches you say you have
Gave you a dozen kids and Steve Martin isn't the dad
They should call you Kevin 11, cuz' you Ben past an Arab's level
Give me 10 reasons why I shouldn't hit you with a shovel
And I should probably dropped the mic on ya' bitch ass
But knowin' you, you'd probably wanna fight, with ya, bitch-"
Kevin hits the dude in the face and the stage gets swarmed by both their squads almost immediately. At the same time, in the crowd,
two guys in the back were about to square off with their squads, so this easliy turns into a big ass Brawl. Jenny runs up on
on the fight between the dude and Kevin and the dude 
tells her to get somewhere safe. Jenny runs off and avoids the skirmish to get to the balcony her and the dude were on.
She left right on time. *scenes*
*That simultaneous split camera look where it shows both people*
The bucket hat guy: Ahh sh*t, looks like we came back to late!
Shane: Looks like we came right on time. *Him and Pip park right next to two dudes fighting*
Pip: *They get out the car* THERE GOES THE CHARGER THAT ONE NIGGA WAS DRIVING!!
Shane: HAHAAA, I TOLD YOU THEY WERE HERE!!
Pip: Now where are these b*tches at!?! *They scan the situation*
Shane: LOOK! THERE ON THE STAGE!
Pip: *Looks at the stage* HOLY SH*T... THAT'S G-EAZY!
Shane: I KNOW, THESE PEOPLE'S PARENTS MUST BE RICH!... Wait a second... *Squints eyes*
Pip: Whatcha' seein'?
Shane: THAT'S THE B*TCH'S BOYFRIEND! ON THE STAGE FIGHTING!
Pip: LET'S GO THEN! *They rush through the Brawl*
THE DUDE AND CORBIN throws Kevin off the stage to finish him and the rest of his squad off. Then they turn around and notice Fun.,
Reggie, & CR$CNT grabbing their instruments & hiding them, & themselves, behind the stage. Then they hear a helicopter thinking it's
police already showing up, but instead, it's G-Eazy's helicopter coming to get him the f*ck out of there, so now the place just
looks wild. A ladder drops down from the helicopter and as G is about to climb up he tells the dude that he had fun and that
he won that rap battle and the fight. Also that he's party'd with Ricky before, so he had that helicopter on standby out of
preparation. Then he climbs up the ladder and flys off. As the dude watched this happen he gets pounced on from behind by a
livid Kevin. Corbin helps get him off the dude, but as soon as they get up, they swiftly lock up with each other again.
As the dude is wrestling with Kevin he tells Corbin to go find Jenny so they can get the hell out of there. Just as Corbin
leaves, the dude looks to the left and sees no other than Shane and Pip. He has a quick moment of despair on his face then
tosses Kevin out his way and takes off to the right. Shane and Pip trail him. The dude hops off the stage and runs through
all the commotion happening. He catches a glimpse of Lonny also running away from the stage through the commotion but loses
sight of .... He's dodged at least 1000 people at this point, tripping and looking back. He finally gets to an opening near
the downstairs area of the house. He takes off towards the inside of the house once he realizes this opportunity, but then
he goes deaf out of nowhere. This distracted him from the fact that his movement has slowed. He feels loose. Looser
than he ever has before. Then one sound breaks through his deaf ears. One he's normally hears through speakers, usually while
watching his Sunday Netflix films. Now he's heard this type of sound several times today... but this one sounds more sinister
than before. Mostly because now the sound is directed at him. *slow motion* A pistol erects from the crowd of people with a black
leather glove behind it, then a body in biker attire, then a face... with evil intention written all over it. Shane has shot the
dude square in the back. The dude falls to the ground rolling forward. His eyes rolling to back of his and his eye lids
closing immediately after. The smoke from Shane's pistol still rises as he holds pose for a moment as if he wanted
everyone to know he's the culprit of the event that just occurred. The whole commotion behind him stops as everyone analyzes
what just happened. The crowd of people towards the middle and back didn't take part in this analyzation as they wasted 0
time to get the f*ck out of there . Pip finally gets adjacent to Shane as
he finally puts the pistol back in his holster.
Shane: *Without looking at him* You know what Pip? *Pip looks at him* ...I think this kill
was better. This is gonna hurt this b*tch mentally and physically.. haha *Looks at Pip* and
that's how Nolan would've wanted it. Let's get the hell out of here. *He turns and walks away/
Pip looks at the dude on the floor then follows Shane*
Before they could turn around, the crowd nearest to them already started scattering like roaches. The two kind of just
disappear into the crowd as even more commotion brewed to get out the vicinity. Next thing you hear is a scream that stands
out from all the other screams and sounds going at the moment. It's Jenny running up to the dude on the floor with Corbin
right behind her as if she broke from a grip he had on her right before she ran. Lonny runs up to the 3 simultaneously with
a large scar on ... face. Jenny sits down and holds the dude in her arms as she sobs and gets blood all over her in the process.
Corbin and Lonny stand over them and watch while fighting off their tears. The police and paramedics finally arrive. It's
weird because no one heard them coming. A paramedic runs up and checks the dude for a pulse then prys the dude's body from
Jenny's arms. Another paramedic comes and they put the dude on a stretcher with a breathing apparatus over his mouth.
Corbin holds Jenny back as they wheel him into the ambulance. You could see one of the paramedics walk up and tell Jenny
something to calm her down. The effort was futile in this situation. There's hasn't been any sound since the paramedics
showed up. Everything has been moving, but there has been 0 sound. *That camera angle where it shows the whole city/
the camera pans up and shows the Moon/fades out on the Moon/scenes*
*X.X/O.O Starts playing/The camera moves left from darkness to view of a hospital bed with surgeons all around it*
One of the surgeons pulls his mask down with bloody finger tips on his gloves. He has an uncertain look on his face.
Another surgeon walks away from the table with his hands up in front of his face. Another is stitching up an open
wound on the dude. His heart rate monitor shows his heart is beating 
Jenny, Corbin, & Lonny are in the Emergency Waiting Room sitting next to each other. Corbin has his head back with
his eyes closed. He's not asleep, he just has them closed. Lonny is sitting upright with ... down.
Jenny is laying her head on Corbin with her eyes deadlocked to the floor. Jenny's never been one to hide her
current emotion or feeling. Her face is an open book. Right now she's not just sad, or angry, or any of that.
She's afraid. Not just of losing the dude, but afraid of the future. When she was with the dude, she was fearless
of everything, especially the future. She's afraid because she knows she'd never meet anyone else like him.
She's afraid because she would've never thought something like this can happen to someone like the dude.
The fact she was just with em' hours ago and now he might be gone made her realize she could die at any moment.
I think that was the vibe of everyone in the waiting room at the moment. Everyone started valuing life after one
might of been lost. I feel like that's too late And right on time. A doctor walks out with a clipboard and looks at
the 3 of them. They all jump up, Jenny being the first to him, and listen for what the doctor's about to say.
He tells them that the dude has lost a lot of blood but no vital organs had been hit. Jenny asks him will he be
okay and the doctor tells her that his heart rate is moving slow so there's really no telling at this point.
He adds that they've stitched him up and got the bullet out, but it's up to his body now to keep
pushing. Corbin asks if they can see him and the doctor nods and turns around. They all look at each
other then follow him. As they're walking up, they hear a panic going on in the room. A loud noise
is resonating through the hallway. The doctor runs into the room to see what's going on and it turns
out the loud noise is the dude's heart rate monitor. He's flatlining. Jenny speeds up and realizes
what's going on and sprints into the surgery room crying. The doctor tries to get Jenny out the
room. Corbin & Lonny come from behind simultaneously and try to grab her. Jenny keeps yelling
at the surgeons to help him as she fights off all three people. Then yells at the dude to fight
off whatever's happening.
Then she gives out one of the most distressed & heartfelt screams anyone's ever heard from her...
"no, No, NO!! JIMMY, I SAID WAKE UP!!!!"
Everyone stops. Not just the people in the room. But everyone in the hospital that
heard her. It's silent for what seems like eternity. Then a sound breaks the
silence. It's the heart beat monitor. First it's just one beat. Then it
picks up more and more. Nobody has said a word yet. Everybody's eyes are just
locked on to the monitor. Jimmy's beats become greater and greater
by the second. Then he opens his eyes. The first thing he sees is
Jenny's curly *ss hair in his face, because she has her head on
his chest crying. She says "Don't scare me like that again,
I thought I lost you!" He struggles to move his arm but manages
to get it around her and says "Alright... but ya' cryin'
more than Drake at an onion factory and he just got a text
saying 'It's over', get it together baby girl." She laughs
and says "Okay." He looks around the room and sees everyone
just staring at them with smiles on their faces. He looks
at Corbin and says "What happened to the two niggas?"
Just as Corbin was about to reply, one of the doctors
say "The two men responsible for this were found and
& arrested a little after you left in the ambulance.
They were found at the after party with underage females.
They have video evidence from several people there at
mansion party on every popular social network, including
WorldStarHipHop. All is safe." Jimmy replies "Good,
cuz' you know, EYYEE was about TO PUT, THEE PAWS
on THEM! *They all laugh* I DON'T KNOW WHY Y'ALL
LAUGHIN' I'M DEAD ASS!" Jenny leans over and says
"Shut up *kisses him* I love you." Jimmy replies
"I love you too youngin'." Then Lonny says
"Aww, y'all so cuuttee." Then Jimmy says
"Huh? What? I DON'T SPEAK BROKE NIGGA, TALK
REGULAR!" *They all laugh* One of the doctors
says "Alright, you guys head back to the
waiting room, this one right here has some
healing to do." Corbin, Lonny, and Jenny
all say see you later and walk out with an
upbeat mood now. You can see Jenny through the
window jumping all over the place on the way
back. Some of the doctors take their gloves
off, sanitize themself, and walk out
shaking each other hands commending each
other. The last doctor writes 12:34 on his
clipboard and checks Jimmy's IV as he's
about to say something. The doctor says
"You're a really lucky guy, ya' know that?
Managed to survive a gunshot wound.
Didn't become paralyzed from it. Having
close friends who actually care about you...
You have it made." Jimmy chuckles and
says "Well, I always for sure knew I
wasn't normal. Luck had nothing to do with
it really. Luck implies coincidences,
and I don't believe in those.
There's a reason I met those guys.
There's also a reason why I ended
up here almost dead. There's
a plus side to all of this.
I'm Just Happy We Learned Something.
I'm Jus t  Hap p y   I    Co u   l    d     W  a   t    c     h               N    e      t        f          l          i              x                      A             g                a                      i                        n                                                    Today.
The End.
*The credits roll while Ab-Soul- Bohemian Grove followed by ChoZin- Tinky starts playing*
PRISM TRIBE