Yo, bro, I think I had too much Hennessy, man
This Hennessy gettin' to me
I ain't gonna lie, I'm a little smizz
I'm a little drizz
But we in the club, man
OOOUUU
Yeah they hate but they broke though 
And when it's time to pop they a no-show 
Yeah, I'm pretty but I'm loco 
The loud got me movin' slow-mo
Ayo, Tweetie, where the hoes, bro? 
Ayo, Keys, where the hoes though? 
That other nigga, he a bozo 
It's M.A, you don't know ho? 
We got liquor by the boatload 
Disrespect the Lyfe, that's a no-no 
All my niggas dressed in that rojo 
I ride for my guys, that's the bro code 
Baby gave me head, that's a low blow 
Damn, she make me weak when she deep throat 
I need a rich bitch, not a cheap ho 
They be on that hate shit, I peep though 
My brother told me, "Fuck 'em, get that money sis!" 
You just keep on grindin' on your hungry shit 
Ignore the hate, ignore the fake, ignore the funny shit 
'Cause if a nigga violate we got a hunnit clips 
And we go zero to a hundred quick 
We just them niggas you ain't fuckin' with 
Pockets on a chubby chick 
And still go bag a thottie in some bummy shit 
Yerr, Eli, why they testin' me? 
Like I don't always keep the hammer next to me 
Like I ain't got a hitter to the left of me 
Like we ain't in these streets more than Sesame 
If that's your chick then why she textin' me? 
Why she keep callin' my phone speakin' sexually? 
Every time I'm out, why she stressin' me? 
You call her Stephanie?  I call her Headphanie 
I don't open doors for a whore 
I just want the neck, nothin' more 
Shawty, make it clap, make it applaud 
When you tired of your man, give me a call 
Dyke bitches talkin' out they jaw 
Next minute, callin' for the law 
This 9 will have 'em callin' for the Lord 
They ain't gettin' shmoney so they bored 
I could never lose, what you thought? 
M.A got it on lock, man, of course 
They say I got the juice, I got the sauce 
These haters on my body, shake 'em off 
Pussy, I'm a bully and a boss 
I'm killin' 'em, sorry for your loss 
I just caught a body, Randy Moss 
Now this year I'm really goin' off 
OOOUUU, OOOUUU
These haters on my body, shake 'em off
OOOUUU, OOOUUU
Ah, these haters on my body, shake 'em off
OOOUUU, OOOUUU
These haters on my body, shake 'em off
I could never lose, what you thought?
What they thought?
I could never lose, what you thought?
This Henny got me, it got me sauced
This Henny got me, ooh, it got me sauced
I could never lose, what you thought?
M.A got it on lock, man, of course
OOOUUU, OOO-UUU