Yo, y'all hear me?
I said, I.C.E is like 60!
But we ain't gon' laugh at his age, this is not gon' be like back in the day
I'm packin' a gauge
30/30 today ICE gon' finally start acting his age
I need to talk to him
You're so old that Ice Age is an actual age
Buck fifty over the mug, translation he's a bum
And these streets keep asking for change
And that's why I'm here, I'm back on the stage
But I ain't sparing a killer I put the spear in the nigga
Stake in his flesh, praying with the mil' , like I'm ready for dinner
I share wool then, wear Wolf like I'm ready for dinner
I'm toe tagging him first
By the way, y'all can wear Wolf too
Once I go and put your man on a shirt
You got the chain?
So what? Suck my dick bitch
I ain't a fan of your work
You made a living off of these scrubs like your man was a nurse
Y'all always talk about you got the tan and the purp' the Zans and the perks
Please, you're a janitor you bagging up dirt
As for me? Shit I really really sat on that curb
And before these, I had to pray that the cameras ain't work
I'm talkin' 'bout real cash on the first
I had the whole city buzzing off the cell like Amber Alerts
Boy, plot thicker, the shot lifter
The can' to his shirt, pieces hitting, for that bag bitch I'm scamming the purse
You want a VIP pass to that church?
I got the leather strap, Lionz Den ICE I strike again it's the second match
I knife vic', yeah that a fine stitch, no leather patch
Then snatch the chain right off his neck with his head attached
I told y'all, I be riding with the thing tucked
But still down to brawl so a knuckle in his jaw made the ring scuff
Now he's leaking everywhere and his teeth gush
I call it a blood diamond
They be looking like the pinky ring blush
Bitch you ain't ever seen guts
You gon' have to scream "cut"
Once I bury you and your jewels like you King Tut
I told y'all, I ain't playing with ICE
If I air one it go out the other, I ain't take his advice
 that's how I'm scrapping up ICE
T-Rex, triple nines, for that chain, that's what I'm taking off ICE
The King Of Pop bitch, way before Mike
He's so old he beat Tina way before Ike
Yo, Raekwon ain't judging this, right?
Cool, I'll Iron the Chef
I dare you to try me and flex
I'll whip out the blade, stick it in then twist it inside of his flesh
And have it Break in Bad like you're supplying me meth
I told you ICE, you better walk a fine line with each step'
My arms out, keep a chip on a nose like sobriety tests
C'mon boy, me and you can exchange pounds
I ain't demanding a truce, ICE slay and let it land in his roof
Then carry the bag over my shoulder, I am Santa to you
Jack Nicholson in court, he can't handle the truth
So the fans gon' kick and cheer once I hand him a noose
You better wave that white flag or start flagging your troops
Cause I'm packing a tool, damage your skull
I am angered, call an ambulance I'll damage you fools
Kevin Costner  how I'm Dancing With Wolves
And like I said, I appreciate y'all reaching out
But wait til round 3, there's some shit we gotta speak about
When I put my dick in your girl hand, she be like, "Oh my God...the size."
When you put your dick in your girl hand, she say, "You know. I don't...get high."
Pardon my back, strut my shoulders, blatant disrespect that I does to dojas
Y'all ain't gonna believe he dead til the casket around him
He don't want no smoke, I would've half a pound him
Way before Lil' Wayne dropped half a thousand
Nigga what's your degree? You play tough
I know your whole make up
This suicide, I'ma put what you do to get Tsu aside
And get to G checking your whole gangsta
Law 1: You disobediant
What you miss is fit but now you take the place of the bitch that be with us
Law 2: You disrespect home rules
Thought I was passing judgement
In Canada you passing blunts to Diz', in Brooklyn you in the car with Math that's coming
Law 3: You Snoop more than Long Beach, now that's Kurupt
I asked your slut
She said, "Out the blue he been fucking me like he did Medusa. " Cause she know you don't give half a fuck
Law 4: You not respectful
You said you flew to Cali to get the drop on Big and you was a block from Diz', I do not respect you
You a Brooklyn Dodger, we can go ask Brooklyn Carter
In Chicago you asked me if you could throw a shot at me
Cause you knew if I felt shit was fishy I was gonna put these hooks up on ya
Law 5: Nigga you all jive
Records Too Short I already bought mine
I'm with my Bay and my Area got a .45
You riding? Well I'ma let this tank hit E cause this 40 won't even let your ghost ride
Who in the lane wit me?
Meth' told you my mind got 36 Chambers, who came empty?
This hockey puck hold 50
Think you just gon' come skate on ICE, you got the game twisted
Whassup papi?
I heard you movin' chickens for what we get for egg rolls
Law 6: You all bitch
Comin' for this chain and got robbed for one
He gon' bring charges up
I can relate
Cause you look like the same nigga that snitched on me when I robbed Ms. Barbra's son
We raise different
40 over the 30 our age difference
I tap Core' on the shoulder like, "I got Brave tickets"
Show him the book then blow his latest news and the page wit it
You read about
For that bag, we'll keep shit Gucci
But you don't see G's around him, let's get back to business
You'll get smacked with  before you can get Smack attention
I don't care if it's year's later
N.O.M.E. 17, and you supply all the crack around us
You write a rap about us and I'll beat you up again
Two days after your Smack announcement
Law 7: You sneaky, I'm surprised  you dropped the beans; Teefey
You know everybody loves Sosa; Chief Keef
That's why that couch still got your smell on it; cheap seats
Who raised these bozos?
You ass, a Taraji photo
Your bars they're quick to gas but where  go though
Rest in peace to the real but you don't keep the steel
So you won't get respect from Akon cause you don't rep that concrete no more
Law 8: You fish market when hoes around
Cops calls you Lionel Richie cause you singin' 'bout old shit now
Even wit' your crew you can't keep shit Frank cause they only hear Ocean sounds
The only Spanish rappers I respect is J-Murda, Nems, Jimz, Money Bagz and Loso
So he can pray for me and tell me if he see ghosts around
I've sinned befo'
Even an average Joe with buttons had sinned befo'
I ain't talkin' 'bout Joe Buddens and Cyn but yo
If you don't button your lips I'ma have to send some mo'
W- FUCK ALL THAT!
Law 9: You soft, you just talk wild flagrant
Even yo' barbecue sauce wild tasteless
We uphold you for longer than eight seconds and take your pills
That's just half court violation
Law 10: Talk is cheap and you can't afford the street shit that you be talkin' 'bout
Harlem is the reason you know Streets Is Watchin' before you had that Reasonable Doubt
Yeah, so round 2 and 3 we got some mo' realer shit to be speakin' about
Look at ya man, already sweatin'
The pressure make ICE melt in any heat
Hah, I'm Jimz second round, in my bag dumpin' the 20 piece
Weapon drawn, I dead ICE
Stare down the barrel now the Wolf look like a deer in headlights
Buck 50, add an extra smile, you dead nice
If he wig, I bug out with the scalp, get it? Head lice
You don't say shit like that bwoy
Actually, I'm unimpressed with ya efforts though
Cause my pen alone can...it can cause mad static like cellular phones when the FEDS is on
You? Second holmes
While the throne is my second home
We watch him lay bricks as my foundation is set in stone
Let me talk to you
You're a steppin' stone to a made man who steps alone
My finger? On the trigger to click, sound like a metronome
Two Twins, open and close domes; Metrodome
When you get the beats, young Metro don't
Once I whip the blade, I let it tip the slay through flesh and bones
So what good is ICE's chain if your neck is gone?
I'm reckless holmes
I spit it certain the kid is worthless, I fo' fo' ya
Shows over, hit the curtains, one life, one gun and the pistol's workin'
And the barrel? Smack gums like Mr. Perfect
The only thing he's great at..is being a grand dad
Not cause he's a great grand dad but because he's a GREAT grand dad, you know what I'm sayin'?
This some shit you never seen before
This clique make his team abort
I give him nines like...when the fiends is short
It's judgement day ICE, last time you seeing Cort'
He gon' spit those trash lines through Ouigi boards
Let me break it down for you, it's like the war goin' on with ISIS
Why? Cause I bring the war to where ever that ICE is
I leveled up, give him extra bucks, nice tips
Two rounds, strapped to the chest like "nice tits"
Ride never, apply pressure; vice grips
If Cort' take off it's a flight risk
See I'm known to flip out on screen like side kicks
So you best to bring your dawgs everywhere like white chicks
Bwoy you better keep still cause we known to keep steel
I'm cold ICE I carry the tre; be chill
Look at him, down to risk it all for nothin'; cheap thrill
I catch ICE slippin' right out the crib; Meek Mill
I told y'all!
Now there's one thing that irks me and there's one thing that nags me
ICE when I seen it, the shit had me aggy
I remember it like it was yesterday when the Twitter fans @ me
I turned around, looked at the pic and said one thing, "Naaastttttty"
Do y'all see this bitch? I'ma give y'all-give 'em out to everybody, give 'em out to everybody. This is nasty. But you can see it on the jumbo screen
I see a flannel shirt and a fitted cap
And I know this bitch got the man face
Plus them two ass cheeks? Look like two burnt pancakes
I mean damn ICE, nigga I ain't holdin' it in
Cause look at you, you dated a selfie, posin', holdin' his chin
I mean, you was like, "I'm Head ICE, you know, I'm the king. I'm gettin' big bread."
No nigga, ya Head ICE, a bum fuckin' niggas on twin beds
It's time I get my shit off
Look at this bitch thong it look like it got some shit on
You fuck that bitch? Boy you got did wrong
Not to mention this nigga got fake Timbs on
Wow!
I mean, you thought you was fly though, honest
This bitch is not no goddess
If that's Wolf love, ICE...I don't want it
This shit proves that you type iffy
Nothin' but laughter, thoughts of Alaska, ICE fishy
Now I put this bitch in a bag, now it's a wrap when I put this bitch in a bag; like Missy
And toss a round right at your dawgs; like Frisbees
I'm Brooklyn I keep metal
Get on the pill like Cosby to me cause your team Jello
This ain't even my A performance, honestly it's a B fellow
It's like global warming ICE, cause you'll never rise to C level
Oh my gosh! Wake the fuck up!
And like I said, I appreciate y'all for reachin' out
And round 3's next and there's some shit we gotta speak about
I'm unique and I'm from the Mecca that's why my audio is 
I could keep the piece or keep the peace, with these type of hands who needs cards dealt?
You don't keep it trill wit' yourself
So crew love, you don't know how real that felt
My Wolf told me in order for people to live in the future he got to kill himself
Then he killed himself
Don't ooh and aww
Cause I told him if he had a reason to kill I wouldn't be mad at him for shootin' y'all
I'm too involved
And you just a part of somethin' that showcase they got artists comin'
Stop talkin' like you the hardest from it
And you ain't never been in that water that Chamberz and Hollow jumped in
You ain't even sit there with Math to smoke a blunt and watch the shots fire when the shits play out
Yeah you deserve cop attire and even then I'm not complyin'
Cause you a bozo
{Slight choke}
K Tone the realest nigga on Murda Ave and he been dope
Reala Next and Gorilla told me how you was in the 'jects and them niggas made you hit the deck
And you was wit somebody they consider kinfolk
Cause you a bozo that's why
I give a fuck about you and Math relationship
Ain't no gettin' past this gangsta shit
You violate? You at Mr. Chow's plate
And I don't mind cleaning your blood with my handkerchief
Don't become a tray on the menu
I rented homes for less when you was homeless and I ain't take the plate or untensils
I stuck to the script
TEC 22 with a see thru clip
That leave you steamin' like a sea food dish
I gotta protect my blood so I keep me an arsenal
That's gon' help me see through shit
If this was game related
I'd be forced to believe the dudes you hang wit bangin'
But it's hard for me to get around the fact that you a clown in the town like an ankle braclett
What?
He gon' make sure they lock me up if I throw my Wolf a knife to untie papi up
That's why it cannot be done
I should've never gave you the rematch when I already earned my stripes since Rocky 1
I trained you after
I'm the reason they raised your stats up
Your schoolin' is to show you that we move by principle in this building
And we don't see no reason to raise that plat up
Maybe next time
'Til then I'ma take yo' bitch on a test drive
She gotta bubble back like an X5
Your sister in my DM like, "Come now. This the best time."
You ass cheeks, now they both hittin' me wit the neck; giraffe beef
Tell 'em stay out the jungle
Weed ain't gon' weigh out the hustle but we'll go way out to touch you
Even those that gotta check and moved out the hood can't stay out the struggle
I ain't gon' let you waste me an hour
You Puerto Rican you gotta wait the power
You see how that storm came in?
I brung this type of death to all his boys
Splittin' they coconut wasn't over candy but it was with this Almond Joy
Now he standin' there stuck, frozen wit his pistol; little green army toy
Don't talk that soldier shit to me, yeah you are not built
Before holes on the side of the sneakers I had spots built
You know if I didn't know you and you tried to decept a con' 
I let the auto bop  you
Your crew can Transform and get a bullet in all they costumes
Class in session, my janitor gonna make sure the hallways mopped too
So preacher crew don't want the gun play option
Preacher, crew, you could- yeah let's talk about it
Murders on Murda Ave wasn't committed by the muderers
You thought "Murdered on Murda Ave" and Cor' ain't one of 'em
So if Co' Jack he get the bald head that come wit it, let's go to war
Yeah I already made the cut let's open sores
You get a closed casket if I opened doors
I won't surf around
When I spot you I just bark on you like Surf around
Yeah, I learned from Loon mess up
That's why my pen addressing the show, an Ah Di Boom letter
You tryin' to wake up the stars? Or wake up in stars?
I put so much blood in your mouth you can fill eight cups or more
Yeah, death will be so bad they'll have to have your wake by the mall
How we viewin' this one?
Shots fired, you just got nicked and put in the syntax
33, now you in  this one
Everybody ballin', fuck what the cost cost
I ain't waitin' or takin' a long loss
When a bozo like you got money in his pocket
And still try to make it out of law one
Yeah, I ain't frontin' on son he just picked the wrong one
Facts
You be gettin' pressed, I'll press the issue
Bullets will put you next to the last death you been to
You ain't earn my respect so after this check I chin you
Yeah, so I'ma need you to tell me who you down wit
Cause some of us ain't cool wit who you move around wit
Plus we know if I pop this cootchie he gon' Doo Doo Brown shit
I've been with 2 Live Crews and I seen people get killed for less
I'm surprised it's still breath in you guys move, yeah
Yeah...ICE
That last round you said somethin' about Preacher
That's how I'm setting the mass
Cause over Dead Presidents, I'ma walk around wit yo' head in a bag
Thoughts on the medulla on how Cor's gonna manuever
"He got jerked the first battle. The judges were all in a stupor."
Boy I brushed that shit off
Nigga in this game there's no complainin', there's no remorse for a loser
So why bring up the past? KOTD, I'd rather push the culture forward I'm gonna talk 'bout our future
Can I do that?
The future is battle rap
I mean we all know that he rap how he got the chain
He got the image of a goon off the back block but in Harlem, we think that boy faker than an ass shot
It's Head ICE, AKA The KOTD Mascot
You are a bird, you're fuckin' Buckwheat
They gon' get every buck up out you
In the hood, if you die, niggas don't give a fuck about you
You don't see it though, see he's blind to the fame
But for real, for these fans I'ma give y'all the facts today
Cause he don't really fuck wit ch'all
He's only doin' this cause he's mad at Smack but hey
I think it's time I unmask your ways
In Harlem, niggas hear Head ICE and be like, "Man, we past the phase."
The Wolf? He don't get the same love on his ave today
So what he did, he got mad, complained
Moved out the hood, copped a passport, catch a plane
All for what? To jump inside the master's chain, that's a shame
Whatever happened to Malcolm, Martin, you know, all the boycotts, the massive slave
Even Colin Kaepernick took a knee, that's how you stand for fame?
You are the face of this league!
And all you do is rap about dope and black nines
When you gon' give us somethin' dope about black lives?
You know what rhymes with that? "Django past prime" and "token black guy"
Now, Organik, he try to finesse y'all though, I'ma keep it a buck
ICE try to finesse y'all, he was like, "Man what they gon' say? Please
I'm the only black face KOTD got. Straight cheese
I'ma go to UDubb, get the Shotgun Suge deposit and rep for they league
And Organik was like, "Uh uh boy. You can't read?"
Wow, how many deposits have you missed out on ICE?
I know you missin' mad cream
I.C.E. I Control Ev- nigga you don't control a damn thing
How are you an OG?
See I can't grasp it, a real OG don't let a man tell him what to do that's only half their age
Ahh man, that's why I gotta look at you, you prolly want your name in the mentions
You only do this for the fame and the bitches
Cool, I got a real Shotgun and Organik just gave me permission
Hmm, I told y'all and this is nothin' but real talk and it's more than quotas
Everything I spit, it's more than cocoa
You gotta revive, give 'em life and put your heart in ICE like organ donors
But if I win the chain I'ma treat it like the presidency
I want to change things up if you left the chain and y'all left it to me
You see I started my own league with my best friend Reesey
It's called Tiers Over Tears
I wanna build battle rap's future and help them build their careers
You gotta help 'em learn all they obstacles, I'll teach 'em how to profit too
He's 40+, and he only raps; guys this is exactly what not to do
Arsonal, John John, me? We all got leagues and we takin' it deeper
We tryin' to help the youth out even make 'em believers
We can brand 'em through yo' shit Gully and your shit Organik
So one day their name can be in the bleachers
And they get fame from a sold out arena from the stage to the bleachers
That's what I wanna do for the future of battle rap
But battle rap as a whole, we gotta make it a movement
Take all the battles off of Youtube, let's start makin' improvements
Let's stream us through, I don't know, fuckin' Tidal, Netflix, how 'bout Apple, Organik you know Drake he can do this
So we all can be worldwide names and we open up lanes for the future and all the new students
That's what I wanna do
But if I win the chain you gotta keep your head in the game
I'm a diamond int he rough, but still I was set in the ring
It's all fool's gold ICE, cause you can't shine if you only settle for chains
That's why I came here to drop jewels, but still at any moment I can still metal your frame
First two rounds, nothin' but bars, that shit was the easy route
I appreciate y'all reachin' out, but third round I wanted to help the culture and give you somethin' you could think about
{ICE clapping}
Let's give it up for that bullshit you was talkin'
Had nothin' to do wit me
Ayo Clips, on Harlem, yo ain't this the dude that gave Math the gun to hit Mook?
That's you right? You gave Math that hammer that hit Mook?
Right? That was you, right? Alright, so look
I can't afford this time on missin' you
So if I ain't outside your house I'm leanin' on the wall when you get your liquor too
Blaow blaow if you heard the shots, they wasn't meant for you
That's called "body"
He ran into a bumpy road trying to small pox me
So if anybody tryin' to copycat my murders, I left Cort' copies
Print 'em out
Me showin' 'em how fake you is
This is a good time like that paperwork you tried puttin' out
You a pawn piece
Just to keep you outta harm's reach cause he cool wit ya mother
You his god neice
Nigga, b-b-but look where we at today
This nigga dropped the case to battle a rapper that live a block away from Jam Master Jay
He ain't that hot today
That's why he was only offered a gym bag and a locker safe
I'm from Harlem, so I blessed him, by tellin' him to bring him back in the World; he Pastor Ma$e
I thought I told you that we won't stop
I thought I told you that we won't stop, ah ha, ah ha
You was cool with Clips and DNA cause me and Goodz ain't fuck wit you
That's facts nigga, facts
Ars'? Never liked you and he would put the hood in front of it
Yeah, Lux did business wit you
With no knowledge of knowin' I murdered you before us meetin' you at the business venue
Yeah, you was the third option
I was supposed to battle Math or Jones nigga, he was the third option
So at the time I didn't feel C food deserved chop sticks
Besides, I just got finished eatin' a plate of chicken and rice by mami at my nigga Jerome projects
And these is TV dinners
Losers joinin' together cause they see we winners
Yeah, this pussy strapped? Please
I ain't never been around this much ass without C3 wit us
Yeah, yeah she can't stand you too
So if the shoe fit, that's cause she more man than you
Yeah, but let's get back to why I feel you ain't real right
You don't know what side to pick I feel you should ride the bench in real life
You couldn't breathe on my block
This type of chicken we don't hatch that there
You can catch that feel or get a hashtag here
So D.J. don't mix me with that record, you can scratch that there
Yeah and more reason I don't never sleep
If my hoe tell she better be Four Seasons
Cor' see us reppin' the six
Holdin' down the Cort I'm Porzingis
Just cause you doin' a lot, don't mean you gettin' a lot done
Don't confuse movement with with progress, that's nonsense
How dare y'all get the thought that he could come in my fort and start takin' ours
When Trump out here usin' his people for basketball hoops with paper towels
Nigga clean up
A head tap will get your shoes in order
Bring your gun I'll use it on you
And put more holes in his story than a new reporter
Yeah, the judge gon' bang his hammer in court like, "Why you bang your hammer on Cort'?"
I'ma tell him I'm from Hamilton I drunk too much polluted water
I'm insane your honor
But he can't get it out his head that I get brains from his baby mama
Lunatic, that's why the handgun clips shaped like a can of tuna fish
You can't shoot through this
I'll smack you back to your diaper days
I get too hyped to play
Don't ignite the rage
I learned how to ride way before I was in jail makin' license plates
And Hersey Hawkins the only shotgun I respect cause he did it in front of Michael's face
So don't talk that Shotgun shit cause the only Shotgun wit a chip besides him is via a microwave
Step your game up nigga
You emotional, you battle rap niggas bore me
Call me when you got a better story to tell
Bring him glory as well
Cause tonight, no matter how his heart attack, his organ's gon' fail
I came to operate
Let Me Ride I'm tryin' to Chronic in my first Dr. tape
Cause Cor' can't be the first Puerto Rican without Uno Lavoz face
There's only one star and he ain't flaggin' right
Pip on that no be Gladdis Knights
You made it passed today but your name and the signature doesn't match on the braggin' rights
That's my body
Me and your wife don't talk as much but if you speak her up my block party
Let the music play
I just dance you screw your face
I make the same expression when I click chuck that butta and your music plays
You a corpse
I'm mad they still got you hooked to an oxygen tank
I took you out the vault after makin' 15 hostages pay
Yeah, so the next time you on the scene and try to play the King Of New York, you got to be Frank
Yeah, I don't do actin' well
You feel your bars and bring 'em back to jail
I'm tough enough to tell a C.O. to crack the cell
Let Cor' out!
I bring the whore out
He won't even be able to spell  unless he next to "Moorehouse"
And the camp is wit me
Pimp yo' ho don't got a chance to trick me
I'll rock your bell then hit your bottom like pants from the 60's nigga
I'm a trendsetter
Your side bitch says when she tries on your clothes it don't feel like a men's sweater
So after you toss her salad you french dressin' that naaasty
That's naaasty Cor' flamingo
Yo Jay Blac, tell Vada Fly don't put his money on this goya bean
The toy I squeeze will show everythin' ain't golden boy, that De La Hoya team
With us, ain't nothin' Sugar but Shane Mosley
If you a boss then sell ticks cause we on the block quicker than Jane Posley, nigga
Police out here solvin' Batman and Robin crimes
My young Wolves bat men when robbin' rhymes
While you out here tryin' to stop men from fuckin' robbin' rhymes
 didn't do shit when his man ex-wife was out here movin' around a nigga who y'all say be robbin' rhymes
They'll catch it later, I'm confused
You in none of the NYB war stories
So violence will never be the core in none of Cor's stories, nigga
Nigga why you go to Angryfan and lie like that?
When you know I can just call him up and reply right back
You know I'm a real nigga so you know I can't shit slide like that
And the sad part is you prolly sit right next to that man when you fly right back
Cor' said Dizaster got in the car when we was smokin'
That's bullshit
I rented the Ford flex so you know the full extend
It holds six people if you big, seven if you small, eight if you babies
I'm only breakin' this down to y'all cause the way he said it shit was crazy, man
Dizaster was in the front seat, Cor' was in the back row
He couldn't even get out the car if I ain't double tap the button to open up the back do'
I was in the passenger seat, Quest was behind Diz' with the  lettin' us hear what his raps 'bout
Cor' seen me pull out the camera
Instead of being a man and tappin' the dude in front of him and askin' Black out
Now I ain't tryin' to lose y'all or confuse y'all
But the dude behind me his name was Blackout
A well known Grape Street Crip, part of Diz' crew
Who was also the same man passin' and receivin'
Every blunt that we ciphered to this dude
Is the truth startin' to sink in Cor'?
Huh? Cause you told Angryfan that you asked me to take it down
That's why I agree wit Cor', but you called me back
And I remember it vividly, in a clear thought
You told me to keep it up
You just gon' tell Math we was on our way to the airport
Am I lyin' Cor'?
Am I lyin'? You ain't say that?
See that's why I can't fuck wit you killa
You can't just switch sides and be comfortable nigga
Please understand me, that's why yo' family lackin' respect like a Huxtable, nigga
Yeah, Cor' vet but goin' against a NASCAR that's optimal reach
If we ever crash his family ain't never gotta worry 'bout a hospital seat, man
Round 3 is over and hopefully you learned some of the shit we was speakin' about
I don't wanna shake your hand
Cause that's the same hand you use to stab the people you around
Just watch your steps, watch your steps and protect the neck of the people in your house
Cause you couldn't even become a Latin King
So being a rappin' king ain't shit we need to be speakin' 'bout nigga
ICE!