Said, word to the fabric, this ain't fabricated
I'm still on a mission
My last battle, I was cheated, but I still raised my stock and position
You and Saga was supposed to lose y'all last battles...it was fate
Oh, I guess y'all wasn't payin' attention
Y'all were supposed to lose to God and a Nun...y'all even lower-ranked in religion
Good and evil
Is there anybody up there that even oversee?
I mean, even you should have your doubts
'Cause you stood right in front of JC, and realized he wasn't the man he was supposed to be
Your Bible, full of stories wit' no proof
Is you seein' it, clown?
BOW! Now you can get your Christi' and a tee 
Do y'all believe in it now?
The shit pitiful
One stab, blood spillin', create a liver pool
Big blade, Tamia
Loso,  it's So Into You!
I squeeze bangers, release anger
Dump the body in the river
They gon' be draggin'  somethin' out of the water: Green Ranger!
I mean, we got cut off on our road to riches - how unfortunate
But if Loso think he can slide into Ryda lane, he  High, like where Jordan went
Got a problem? Corner bend, ordered hit
Drop coordinates
Pop up on him outta nowhere, like the nigga at 40 crib!
You turned down Nunn Nunn when he was searchin' for religion?
I knew you was a sucka
Mackk Myron call you a faggot every chance he get...
Now you gotta shoot that mu'fucka
I mean, it's just me and you in a small room, and can't nobody cover for a brother
They say He Got Game, now he's just encountered death: Jesus Shuttlesworth mother!
You told Scotty you was tippin' on fo'-fo's
I said, "Tippin' on fo'-fo's? Oh!"
I just couldn't believe it
I said, "Won't you look at this? Loso gun bustin' for Jesus"
In that moment, your innocence, it was all over
You became a lost soldier
And I ain't like the way you handled it, 'cause you even tried to sham God  wit' the crossover!
So is it the Lord's word, or the pistol play?
The Holy Bible, or a grip today?
God forgives, I don't - I'll lift and spray
And it wouldn't matter, 'cause I'd just walk into the church, get baptized and wash the sins away
Am I speakin' clear? Did it reach your ear?
Okay, cool, we can leave it there
On second thought, we can't leave it there
Loso, how is it even fair
That I could be the one to send you to Heaven, and when I die, I could meet you there!?
I said, I ain't Cave, I ain't Goon, I'm the Silk One
Wind blow, arm wave, make your bitch come!
Big gun, tombstone - come and get one
He tryna make sure I don't lose my soul, I'm tryna send one
'Cause I get paid off of every body: it's a gross income!
Every man got a dark side, and y'all just seein' what he showin'
I mean, right now, he reapin' the benefits, but later he gon' be payin' what he owin'
You prob'ly in Hell already, and your dumb ass is not knowin'
Everybody kissin' ass to go to Heaven ain't goin'!
Round
I said-
Gimme one minute, real quick
Hey, uh, baby? Ah-ha, real quick, um...you never dated a guy named Ryda, did you?
I mean, you can tell me the truth, sweetie
Yeah, Ryda. He used to be a Goonie, he loses all the time...
Wait, hold on- never mind, that's Glueazy
Okay, uh...one more- hold on, I'm on the phone
Uh, one more question
Tell me the truth, I promise I won't be mad
That silk shirt you bought that day...you promise it was for your dad?
Alright, I believe you
I just had to make sure with my ride-or-die
And since we got nothin' to worry, this the round we make sure Ry-
Bro, you got famous for pillow-talkin'!? I could tell you don't listen to the streets
Talkin' 'bout, "Mike, I smashed your girl!"
Since when is it OK to be snitchin' to Pulice ?
I mean, sheesh, ever since that round went viral, Ryda think he made it big-time
And you standin' tall now, huh?
Yeah, I bet you feel about 6'9" 
Bro, quit lyin'!
You got some nerve to brag about her dirt and past
On second thought, you might be street, 'cause that's exactly how a virgin act
If I was Mike P, on everything, I woulda murked your a-
...sk anyone
Ryda, you ain't deserve to smash
The truth hurts
Even Tsu Surf knows you wasn't earnin'  Ash'
Ayo, PIMP FACTS! Pimp Facts!
If you was in my girl contacts, I woulda blocked that
You woulda called, I woulda said, "No, no, no, baby, I got that."
Ayo, Ryda, why cap?
Saying you exposed Mike girl for what he did to Danny?
Did you forget this month
When you were an unproven rookie, she decided to invest in ya?
But then you messed it up
You got depressed and drunk
Started gettin' DUIs, after DUIs, then arrests would come
See, that's why I can't respect this bum
'Cause while you were busy catchin' a buzz, she was tryna GET you one!
It's annoying me how you haven't learned how it works
It's called loyalty - I learned that in the hood before I learned that in church
She has moved on, little Bryan
Are you lost and blind?
Yo, why am I the religious one, but you still lettin' Ash' cross your mind?
Your senses? You need to come to it
You ain't done wit' it, you still in love wit' it
'Cause she woulda never moved forward wit' a rebound if you was really drummin'  it!
I'm assumin' you wouldn't do it
I peeped how you was movin'
You had to use that angle, right? I know, 'cause you was losin'
And started choosin' to bring up Mike and that pumpkin patch picture
It was hella corny
Funny how that pumpkin didn't turn Ryda  into a Cinderella story!
You lost!
Callin' yourself the Fresh Prince in that battle made you look terrible
'Cause if you was really the Fresh Prince, then a judge woulda took care of you
It's unbearable...
Kiss and tell? That's what these dudes do?
Swamp voice: "Boy, I could tell you never had no coot new"
Aye, I should bruise you
For callin' yourself Buster Douglas 'cause you made your name off of Mike
Well, at least homie real
'Cause just like Buster Douglas, he losin' his next match to somebody wit' a holy feel 
And you know the deal
Friends don't expose friends, Ryda - you put yourself out the rules
And sell out for views
Claiming you did to him what he did to Danny? Are you hella confused?
Thinkin' you can be Like Mike 'cause you put yourself in his shoes?
I mean, OOH!
My bad, I just had to get him right
'Cause if Ryda  talk to my baby, Jesus, it better be Talladega Nights, aight!?
Look, I know you upset right now, and when you hear this, you'll get through it
Just don't blame me for it, Ryda
Just know the Holy Spirit made me do it
What in the Greenleaf is goin' on wit' you Christians?
I mean, it's like y'all forgettin' the message
It seems like all y'all start to change the moment y'all start receivin' y'all blessings
I mean, but this where you wanna be, so fuck it, I'm uppin' the can'
You know how much power come from a gun in the hand?
BLAM! Now let's see if God carry you, like one footprint in the sand
Nigga, you dealin' wit' a mastermind
Every time y'all niggas get too big-headed, I'm the one they call to put you back in line
Loso was outside that hotel after the Nunn Nunn battle like, "It's over for me, Ryda"
I said, "Don't worry. I'll help. Call P - I'll get you back, just fine."
But I guess you wasn't tuned in
My last battle was Communion: I made the cracker whine !
Now this is the part of the battle where you fight for your life!
Boy, you might just get strangled
Shit, we might throw the hands
 Shit, I might up and bang you
I mean, you Christian, right? Well, not very Christian-like
You deserve to get mangled
Now let them know how you was my sparring partner for Mike P and you was the one that really encouraged the angle
Welcome to battle rap!
Where Arsonal disrespect, "You died on the same day as your nephew", and even Mike P's second round vers' Danny get praised crazy
Brizz fight Mook, Calicoe drop in, it get praised crazy
But I throw on some silk and get ridiculed 'cause I talk about fuckin' a nigga lady?
When this Christian BITCH ain't get criticized for talkin' 'bout a nigga dead baby!?
Is you crazy!?
Look here, lady, you talked about Barry Bandz's dead baby
And you knew he was still torn
Let that happen to you and your wife, my nigga, you would still feel gone
If that happened to anybody in the world, my nigga, they will mourn
Now imagine a Christian sayin', "Aye, man, you know, even within death, there's still life."
Well, do you think that shit count if the baby is stillborn!?
I'm still goin', 'cause I don't understand what the fuck you be sayin'
It's like you blinded by the fans and the canvas
You don't even understand what pictures you paintin'
I mean...we talkin' 'bout the tattoos, the gold in your mouth
Can you even explain it?
I mean, wit' all the Drama and Gangsta grills , it seems your faith and Dedication is wanin' !
I'm from the DMV!
I represent the leagues where you could actually see the hunger come from a nigga
You represent a league where the owner will pull a gun and still run from a nigga
Stop preachin' to me about shit you really need to preach to yourself
Stop telling me that you hope I don't lose my soul when you been the only nigga up here that's been losin' hisself
Yeah...I said, I'm bombin', black
Relax? I ain't got time for that
I mean, I'm lookin' in this Caffeine chat, and I need to leave a comment where somebody left a comment at
I mean, honestly, I thought you was bro, bro
I figured out you lied and you homo
You used to use God for promo
Now it's Glocks and fo'-fo's
I wouldn't be surprised if you pushed rocks and coco...
And you lose every time, and you start actin' like a bitch
And if you wonderin', nigga, that's why I stopped watchin' Loso!
I'll take this nigga out in his sleep! He won't even know he gone
Wakin' up at the Lord's door like...he don't even know what's wrong
God pop out like, "Lil' nigga, this where you don't belong."
Your girl'll wake up to a Horse head in her bed: it's a message from Corleone!
I'm FUCKIN' you up right now!
But it's OK, you gon' get through it
And don't be mad at me, Loso...the silk made me do it
It's on you, man
Aye, come over here, c'mon-c'mon-c'mon, don't go
My bad about that last round...
Can we rap now?
Mm-hmm
Can we pretend like nobody heard that in the ba-?
Yo, we both been poppin' since 2016 
But who's the rapper that they all should fear?
The rider  known for one great round, or the one sittin' on four good years ?
I am tired of it, and it's hella wack what this fella raps
I was co-signed by Da Don, King - you know I'm 'bout to sell this match
You a jealous cat!
So Nas, you couldn't stomach God's Son from a Belly tat'
Never bein' on another card wit' him is what I'm tellin' Smack
Y'all wanna listen to Ryd'  Wit' Me? Put on a Nelly track
The villain's back, but y'all don't know Loso
I'm Keepin' It Gangsta wit' a chip on me: this that old Loso
So Holla Back, youngin! 'Cause you finally got a name in this
No, I said, "Holla Back, youngin", because of Loso, Ryda  train for this
But it's not enough, time is up
They know you lack what I do, bruh
Oh, you thought 'cause you left Michael shaken  that they would turn their Back to the Future?
Be honest, Ryda!
It's not hard to decide why I am Marty McFly
They know I'm timeless, Ryda 
But you? Battle Rap Trap
Oh, you just cookin' up the base raw?
Mr. "I Predicted the Future!"
Yeah, you do look shaky wit' the 8 balls
Since quarantine, how many vets have you amazed - none?
You askin' them to come outside, but they stay at home because you haven't fazed one 
Listen, I'm not pissed off 'cause y'all puttin' in Ryda so he can battle dudes
I'm pissed off because I remember putting in my writer that I will never battle you
But I ain't mad at you, I understand in this room
You went from me, Saga, even battling Ooops
They book you in front of A Few Good Men because you can't handle the truth
All of this time cruisin'  by, and we just laughin' at you
Because the Goonies split up, and yes, we are so convinced
That you are somehow still the fifth option on a team that don't exist
How did that happen?
It's Mr. "I Like to Name My Guns!"
Which is a cool little tactic to hide the fact that you don't know the original name of one!
Let's put it to the test, though...
Ah, this one gun's a goodie
Ryda, do you know what a CornerShot semi-automatic pistol is?
No?
Then how the hell did you 'Up Jump the Boogie'?
See, that's what happens to these stupid kids who claim their tool legit
So I'mma start losin' it! Give you a fist!
And bruise your chin! 'Til you descend!
How 'bout I strap up my boots and kick!?
Forget a Magoo - I'll literally put a Timberland  through your shit!
Ah...I shouldn't have said that word
I gotta think before I edit
It wouldn't matter because they booked you versus me, so you were cursed before I said it
Time
The man...the silk...the legend...
The preacher...the usher...the Reverend...
Pimp Facts
If yo' bitch name in my contacts, we been in contact
It ain't no need to slow it down, and no rewind that
See, I been wit' a lot of females
I could spare y'all the details
But if I did...well, most of battle rap wouldn't sleep well
Y'all see these niggas as leaders
Sayin' the collection plate is for the bills for the church, and if you're goin' through a hard time, you give 'em a call if ya need to
You go outside, you see a new Benz, fully loaded wit' all of the features
I mean, I wouldn't doubt your flex
Malcolm X: 'cause wit' everything I've read , the biggest pimps is the preachers
Nigga, I believe in God...
But the same person that gave you the Word, nigga, gave you the Bible
They tryna control and divide you
You been lied to, but you defend it because you prideful
They say Heaven got streets paved of gold...
Hmm - and nobody's ever been there...
Nigga, they even designed your skies, too
Be mindful
You can't be a hypocrite and think I wouldn't pin it against you
You can't be a Christian wit' gun bars and think I wouldn't pin it against you
You give Him all the glory and yourself none?
Okay, well, here is the issue
6th Man: you feel like that shot only good if the Spirit is wit' you
And now? Nigga, you gettin' exactly what you deserve
You believe in a book full of stories of shit you ain't never observe
And that's the main reason your brain is gettin' left on the curb
He was blinded by religion
Book of Eli: you gon' die spreadin' the Word
Nigga, you claim you a man of God, but I can see the demon in yo' eyes
Your faith, belief, it's all been weakened by your pride
I predicted the future...way back at Banned 1
I know y'all prob'ly thinkin' why
'Cause vers' Saga, it was, "Get low, Ryda : Eddie Guerrero"...and y'all forgot the Latino nigga died!
You can get the work wit' the hands, or the work wit' the can'
BOW! Body twitchin'
It's like he here...but not here, like a virtual fan
You got yourself into some shit, and now you can't get out it
I got at him , took a rib away, and broke Eve
I wanna see if God can make a bitch out it
Try and duck a shot, nigga, I'll weave right back
BOW! Lung shot
"One and then the two
Two and then the-"
They tellin' Loso to Breathe like that!
The drop of a dime!
It's Murda: Ja Rule and Irv Gotti in they prime!
Then BAH! It's Mo' Murda: E. 1999!
I'll take yo' bitch, to the crib, or on the backseat in the backstreet
Oh yeah, 'cause once I throw on the Silk, it's a Meeting in My Bedroom
And I can get deep like Blackstreet
I mean, here's a reminder: don't make us come and find ya
I'll be in the Lord's House wit' things flyin' by ya
Arm raised in the church like Eddie King in the choir!
Why do you pray!? I mean, I need to know how it work
I mean, it seems like you only pray for your success
Nigga, I only pray when I'm hurt
You was prayin' for sales on your merch
Bitch nigga, I was prayin' for Twork
You and A. Ward was prayin' that "It's OK to Not Be OK" did good views on YouTube...
While we was prayin' they found LB during the search
I mean, as a rapper, you a good nigga
But as a man, you losin' your worth
See, niggas start drinkin' this religious Kool-Aid and forget who was drinkin' water with 'em
Niggas had the night of they life and forget who was mournin' wit' 'em
I mean, I came to talk to you 'cause I can no longer ignore the system
And I hate the fact that I can't say that I hope you don't your soul, 'cause I know it's missin'
Ah-he-hem...
Ayo, this lil' Silk Chamberlain gimmick? I thought it was so original
Mr. "I Predicted the Future!" Me, too...
Bro, you so predictable
Same one?
Look, alright, cool, let's cut to the chase, bro
To prepare for this battle, I sat back, begun to write
I knew son was nice
But I read Luke 8:17 and remembered, "Whatever happens in the dark is bound to come to light."
Oh, you better come to fight...
One of my boys was almost killed by a drunk driver
That person is a straight clown
'Cause while that person wanted the feeling of being wasted
My boy had to live wit' no feeling from the waist down
I didn't believe Mike when he said you had multiple DUIs
You know I have to be fair
But then I remembered how I always see a Ryda  wit' Henny
Yeah, you do like to travel impaired
He said the SILK made him do it!
Do what? Bro, don't lie to the refs
After your last battle, Pulice  had you walkin' a straight line
I know your mind was upset
Wanted to head back to put his finger on the nose, but that ain't how you progress
Watch my pen, Ryda , 'cause you failin' another sobriety test
He said the SILK made him do it!
Do what? Oh, like livin' it up?
While Twork was all in the hospital and you ain't visit him once?
Come on, Ryda! We remember all those vids!
Screamin' out, "The Goonies never die!"
And you wasn't around when one almost did
I can't respect that! That's cowardly!
Oh, but fashion tips is what you wanna shout to me
Ryda, I will never be caught dead in a silk shirt...but you 'bout to be
How can he surprise Ashley like that last battle?
You ain't feel dishonored?
Thinkin' wit' No Limit, you could Master P if you used the Silk to shock her !?
Cool
Well, since the Silk gave you dirty laundry, I'mma put it in hot water
And after getting washed tonight, your dry rounds gon' make it look a lot smaller
He said the SILK made him do it!
Do what? Look pitiful?
The Silk made you still live at home wit' your mom and your sister, too!?
The Silk made you not get a job because it hinders you?
Let me guess - you put on the Silk to show the pimp in you
But can't hide the fact how URL has been pimpin' you
I know I sound like a hater, but i'm actually cool wit' the guy
It's just hard to appreciate the Silk when you constantly pull the wool over our eyes
It's all fabricated
A Ryda  not makin' moves!? Even your name is exaggerated
And THAT'S why-
THAT'S why you won't reach us
'Cause it's not just that the fans don't know who you are
Bryan Harris, you don't either
But you wanna be named a GOAT
Cool - well then, start takin' notes
Put away your wave and coast, and look at your boy and see  how I stay afloat
Bo, when they look at you, they see I got no gimmicks, no drama...
I'm just puttin' on for my whole city
Everybody knows that Ryda can't rap wit' me
Listen, you are a card-filler, Ryda, and you will never be more
'Cause no matter how many battles you do, the Silk is the only material we remember you for
And I know that hits hard, bro
Look at his face
This the face of a nigga gettin' his soul lifted
You want your silk shirt back, Ryda? Nigga, go get it
Time
Good shit, my boy