YOW! Sex machine!
Get up 
Get up 
Stay on the scene  like a lovin' machine 
Get up, yeah yeah 
Yeah yeah yeah 
Stay on the scene  like a lovin' machine 
Wait a minute!
Take your arm, yeah, then use your form
Stay on the scene like a sex machine
I said do the bump, huh, I said shake your rump
And stay on the scene like a sex machine
I said do the bump, and then shake your rump
And then stay on the scene like a sex machine
The way I like it, I like it, I like it, I like it, I like it, I like it
The way I like it is the way it is, yeah yeah yeah
Don't worry 'bout his, got to, got to
I said the way I like it, yeah yeah yeah, is the way it is
Don't worry 'bout mine, and don't forget his
Just stay on the scene like a lovin' machine
Stay on the scene, stay on the scene like a lovin' machine
Now won't you get up , get on, get on 
Get up, get up, yeah 
Can I get up? 
Get up, yeah yeah , get on up 
Then stay on the scene, stay up  like a lovin' machine 
Wait a minute!
Shake your arm, yeah, then use your form
Stay on the scene like a lovin' machine
Don't check the sweat, check out the discotheque
Don't check the sweat, get at the discotheque
I'm buying into the discotheque
I got ants in my pants and I need to dance
And I'm buying a discotheque
I got ants in my pants and I need to dance
And I'm buying a discotheque
I can do the bump, huh, watch her shake her rump
I said beep beep, I guess I'll get that
Ain't it funky now? 
Ain't it funky now? 
Way down funky now
Ain't it funky now?
I got cornbread funk, molasses funk, yeah 
Gravy funk, yeah, biscuit funk 
Biscuit funk 
Greasy funk 
Add a little funk 
Wait a minute
I said Lima beans, don't make me mean
COME HERE, woman, show your move, yeah yeah yeah
Shake me to death, then, then make me groove
Now won't you get up , Fred 
Fred, I see one standing way over there
Now, how you like 'em, Fred? 
Oh, you like to look up? 
How you like 'em, Maceo? 
UH! You like hairy legs, or you like very legs? Ah-ha-ha
How you like 'em, Pinck? 
What he say? 
Mem - oh, don't get so low, brother, before you flow, I mean, go
How you like 'em? 
Well, don't get too deep in there, that's my thing over there
He tryna get over the hump but he get a greasy rump
Now, now, I don't know what you - he think I'ma go to him
You've been in love, I ain't gon' ask you nothin'
I don't care if you don't like 'em, but brother, how you like 'em?
 That could be anything
How you usually like 'em, Crimes? You can't play the fever
How you like 'em? 
Yeah, I see that, yeah, I see, I think he finna get on the corner
Yeah, he gon' put it in business, Crimes gon' put me in business
I like it like that, ah ah, I like it like that when I walk, yeah yeah yeah
I gotta tell you how I like
You don't want me to tell you how I like 'em 
How you think I like 'em? 
Yeah, Lord 
No, I don't mean no, I don't mean no harm
But you see, you see, I like all kinda things but, uh
When I ride, I wanna glide
I want an easy ride, I need cushion in my ride
And make me glide, and have my stride when I glide
I like 'em fat like that
UH! How you like 'em, Jab?
He said 'Meaty'...