Cory: Good morning, Mr. Feeny. 
Feeny: Morning, Mr. Matthews.  A candy bar? Doesn’t your mother feed you a proper breakfast?
Cory: Oh yeah, she does. Now, I gotta get the taste of shredded wheat out of my mouth. 
Feeny: Y’know, you’re not doing your body any favors loading up on junk like that. 
Cory: Oh, thanks, Mr. Feeny. And please enjoy that high-vitamin astronaut drink you’re sucking down. 
Feeny: There’s no gravity in space, Mr. Matthews. Therefore astronauts suck up; learn from them. 
Shawn: He’s a teacher, man. Keeping ragging on him, he’s gonna make your whole sixth grade year miserable
Cory:  I’m gonna be miserable anyhow. At least this way I’m taking him with me
Shawn: Hey, who’s that? 
Nicolas: I think she’s new
Shawn: She must be new, she’s talking to Feeny
Nicolas:  Okay, so how late did you stay up last night?
Cory: Monologue.
Nicolas: Monologue, First Guest.
Shawn: Monologue, First Guest, Bad Sketch.
Cory: Monologue, First Guest, Bad Sketch, Funny Zoo Animal.
Nicolas: Monologue, First Guest, Bad Sketch, Funny Zoo Animal, Steve Lawrence!
Cory: Whoa!
Shawn: Steve Lawrence? 
Shawn:  And there’s the bell
Cory: Four hours 'til lunch. 
Feeny: She’s dead, Mr. Bornihay. Pick up the knife and kill yourself
Nicolas: Come on, Mr. Feeny, you and I both know she’s not really dead. May I please stab her a few times just to make sure?
Vanessa:  Hey! You touch me with that knife, you better kill me the first time
Nicolas:  Mr. Feeny…
Feeny: All right, all right… 
Shawn:  Cory
Cory:  Huh?
Shawn:  What’s the score?
Cory:  Bottom of the third, two out, Dykstra’s on second, Kruk’s on first, 3 and 2 to Dalton. 
Feeny:  What’s this, Mr. Matthews?
Cory:  Huh? What’d you say, Mr. Feeny? You took my hearing aid
Feeny:   Smoltz delivers, Dalton swings. Oh, he got a piece of that one. It’s a long drive, deep to center. Otis Nixon back, back to the warning track, climbs up the wall, and… 
Cory:  Ohh!
Feeny:  Mr. Matthews, Romeo and Juliet is Shakespeare’s ultimate testament of love between a man and a woman
Nicolas:  Help! Help! Mr. Feeny! Help!  Help! Help!
Feeny:  Ms. Kincaid, thank you! Thank you  for that, uh, vigorous interpretation.  Mr. Matthews, you do not listen to the ballgame in the middle of my class
Cory:  Mr. Feeny, who cares about some guy who killed himself over some dumb girl?
Feeny:  The tragedy here, Mr. Matthews, is not about a dumb girl or the boy who kills himself because of her. It’s about the all-consuming power of love and the inevitability of its influence on each of our lives
Cory:  Are you aware that I’m only eleven years old?
Feeny: Are you aware that you have detention Friday afternoon?
Cory: No, actually I did not know that. 
Eric:  You will? Okay, great.  Yeah, me too.  All righty. Okay. Bye.  Yes! 
Cory:  YES! Phillies won, 8-3!
Eric: I’m going out with Heather Ralston! 
Cory: You know what that means?
Eric: It means every guy in the tenth grade wants to be me. 
Cory: It means if they win Friday night, that they’re in the playoffs!
Eric: Look, Cory, we gotta talk about something
Cory:  That makes the game we’re going to the most important game of the year!
Eric: Look, Cory, my date with Heather’s Friday
Cory:  Now, I got a slight case of detention from Feeny, but I’ll just meet you at the bus.   What?
Eric: It’s the only night she was available
Cory: You’re not going to the game?  That’s terrible
Eric: Actually, Cory, it, uh… it gets worse
Cory:  She’s going to the game with us?
Eric:  You’re really close!
Cory:  She and I are going to the game?
Eric:  Come on, Cory, it’s my first date with her. It’s really important to me
Cory:  But Eric, going to the Phillies game is like our special thing
Eric: Cory, I’m trying to get a special thing going with Heather. Now, look. You could be happy for me and accept this like a mature guy or you can…
Cory:  DAD! 
Eric:  Overreact
Cory: Dad!
Amy: Just the kid I want to see
Cory: Mom, we have a major problem. 
Amy: You have detention with Mr. Feeny. 
Cory:  How could you possibly know that?
Amy:  He stuck his head over the fence and told me while I was bringing in the groceries
Cory:  I want to move
Alan: Why did you get detention?
Cory: You know, you’re missing the bigger issue, Dad. You bought a house next to my teacher. I want to move. I want to move now.  Get the guy with the gold jacket. I’ll be in the car
Alan: Why did you get detention? 
Amy: Apparently, he’d rather listen to the baseball game on the radio than try to understand the emotional content of Romeo and Juliet.
Cory: Mom, I’m a kid! I don’t understand the emotional content of Full House!
Morgan:  I do!
Cory: Besides, I don’t know why you’re dumping on me. I’m not the one who sold out my only brother for some girl
Amy:  Eric, she said yes! 
Eric: Yep
Amy: Congratulations
Cory: You were in on this?
Eric: Oh, come on, Cory, don’t you think you’re making a big deal about this game?
Cory:  I don’t care about the game. I don’t care about the tickets. I wouldn’t take them if you offered them to me
Eric: Alright, look.  I’ll just take Heather somewhere else. Here, you want the tickets? 
Cory: Yes! 
Eric: Get real! 
Cory: Dad!
Alan: Cory, he paid for those tickets with his own money, he can take whoever he likes
Cory: But I earned those tickets. I slept with him for eleven years!
Alan: Look, pal, when you’re older you’ll understand how your brother feels because girls will be important to you, too
Cory:  Fine. My brother betrays me, my parents take his side—fine. I don’t have a friend in this house. 
Morgan: Do you want me and Debbie to go to the baseball game with you?
Cory:  Hey, go to the game with my sister and her doll. Great! Maybe during the 7th inning stretch I could run through the stadium in my old Spider-Man underwear
Morgan: Well, you don’t have to dress up for me
Shawn: Well, mine’s got fuzz
Cory:  Mine’s got lips
Shawn: Hey, bag man. Rough life being an only child, huh?
Cory:  Yeah. Rougher life being an orphan, which is what I am as of last night
Nicolas: What happened?
Cory: I dumped my family and my family dumped me. It was mutual. They’re keeping the house
Shawn: Well, we’re here for you, Cory
Cory: Thanks. You’re my new brothers.  Hey, how about we go to the game Friday night?
Nicolas: I thought the game was sold out
Cory: It is, so we go down early. There’s always guys with extra tickets
Shawn: Don’t you have detention Friday?
Cory: Uh, don’t worry about detention. I can handle Feeny. Feeny loves me
Shawn: Feeny hates you
Cory: Well, it’s one of the two. We’ll see who’s right.  Mr. Feeny, may I sit down?
Feeny:  I’d rather you didn’t
Cory:  Hates me. 
Feeny:  Mr. Matthews, I spend 35 to 40 hours a week dealing with the perceived problems of whiny little people like yourself. Now, this is my lunch period, my respite from the fray. I spend four hours with you every morning and three hours with you every afternoon. Now for God’s sake, get out of my face.   Evelyn!
Evelyn:  George
Feeny:  I saved a place for you
Evelyn:  Oh, aren’t you sweet?   And who is this young man?
Cory: Uh, my name’s Cory Matthews. Mr. Feeny’s my teacher. He hates me
Evelyn: Now Cory, I’m sure that Mr. Feeny doesn’t hate you
Amy:  Oh, good. Caught you home. Housewarming gift.  Chocolate pie with a side of barbequed chicken and corn on the cob. Now, I would’ve bought you a plant, but, hey, you’re in a tree
Cory: Thanks, mom
Amy: Are you all right?
Cory: Of course I’m all right. I’ve been in this tree house a million times
Amy: Never after dark…  
Morgan:  Cory!
Cory:  I gotta build a moat around this place. 
Morgan: Do you want Debbie to keep you company?
Cory: Why would I want your doll to keep me company?
Morgan: In case you get scared
Cory: Morgan, I’m eleven years old. I don’t get scared. And even if I did get scared and had to defend myself, my weapon of choice would not be a chick with a plastic head
Morgan: Well you don’t have to get so snippy. 
Cory:  Hey, America’s funniest home teacher. 
Amy: Okay, mister, drop my son’s underwear
Cory:  Mom, it’s me
Amy: How do I know it’s you?
Cory: Who else would want my underwear?
Amy:  Good point. 
Cory: Now, don’t get your hopes up. I’m not moving back in or anything
Amy: Oh, hey, I’m just here straightening up the room for the boy we rented it out to
Cory: Well, I hope he’s got better luck with brothers than I did
Amy:  You still feeling a little abandoned, Cor?
Cory: Yeah, well, life goes on
Amy: Yeah, that’s what your dad said when it happened to him
Cory: Why? Who abandoned Dad?
Amy: You did
Cory: I never did anything like this to Dad
Amy:  Oh, when you were little you couldn’t wait for your dad to get home from work so you could throw the football around with him. I’ll tell you something, he looked forward to it as much as you did
Cory: So how come we don’t do that so much anymore?
Amy: Well…  You got a little older, and you had a bunch of friends, and you were more interested in throwing the football around with them
Cory: Wait a minute, it sounds like you’re saying I’m the bad guy
Amy: No, honey, there’s no bad guy. All I’m saying is that it’s natural that people grow up and priorities change. Okay? 
Cory: Mom?
Amy: Hmm?
Cory:  You were always very cordial to me when I lived here
Amy: Thank you, Cory, and I give you my word that the new boy will never replace you in our hearts. 
Cory:  You’re not gonna talk to me at all, are you, Mr. Feeny?  Because I’ve been sitting in this seat for 38 minutes and I’ve been very good and I think you should let me go.  Look, and eleven-year-old boy cannot sit still this long. I’m gonna get up.  I’m up.  I’m dancing.   I’m leaving.  My hand is on the knob.  The door is open.  Fine.  I’m in the hall!   Mr. Feeny, this stinks! 
Feeny: It’s supposed to stink, Mr. Matthews. It’s detention. You’re being detained from whatever it is you’d rather be doing
Cory:  Well, I think it’s a cruel and unusual life-sucking torture
Feeny:  You’ve captured the essence
Cory: Why do we have to stay here? Just because I don’t want to hear about this love stuff? Because I know it only leads to no good, and I know in your heart you agree with me
Feeny:  What brings you that conclusion, Mr. Matthews?
Cory: ‘Cause you and I had dinner together last night
Feeny: Really? I wasn’t aware
Cory: I had chocolate pie and you had salad for two all by yourself
Feeny:  How did you know that?
Cory: ‘Cause I slept in my tree house last night. You know why? ‘Cause this love stuff has turned my whole family against me. And you’re teaching us how it’s worth killing yourself for when I know you don’t really believe that, do you?
Feeny:  Well… You shrewd little observer of the human condition.  How blissful it must be for you to have lived so little and yet already reached your conclusions about the greatest wonder of the universe
Cory:  Y-you know what, Mr. Feeny? Keep the radio
Feeny:  Shakespeare wrote plays and sonnets. The Greeks wrote tragedies and comedies. Robert Burns, Emily Dickinson, the Brownings examined the depths of human emotions.  And do you know what each one of these poets, playwrights, and philosophers had in common, Mr. Matthews?
Cory:  They all took your class?
Feeny: Every one of them was older than eleven.  You come into my classroom at the beginning of the year, and at the end, you go. And I really don’t know if, in the time we spent together, I have taught you anything! Well, this afternoon, Mr. Matthews, you are going to learn something from me!   Do I have your attention?
Cory: Yes, sir
Feeny:  I live on the other side of the fence from you, Cory. And it’s impossible not to face in your direction every once in a while and notice the people in the next yard. And through the years, I’ve got to know them. It is apparent that they are fine individuals, but  their real strength  comes from being a family. And do you know why they’re a family, Cory? Because, at one time, a man and a woman realized that they loved each other and pursued the unlimited potential of what may come from that love.  And here you are.  There is no greater aspiration than to have love in our lives, Mr. Matthews. Romeo knew it and died for it. Others know it, and prepare salads. And those who don’t know it will sit in detention for the rest of their lives.   This particular detention is over. 
Morgan: Do you want to have tea with me?
Cory: No, Morgan, I don’t want anybody to know I’m here, okay?
Morgan: Oh, okay. You’re moving back in?
Cory: Yeah, don’t tell anybody
Morgan: Oh, okay.  Cory’s back!
Cory: No!! Shhh!!   Hi, honey, I’m home
Alan:  Well, it’s about time. Dinner’s on the table and the kids have been animals. 
Cory:  I know that you and Mom will lose out on all that rental income, but I want my old room back
Alan: Well, that comes at quite an economic blow, but we’ll try to get by
Cory: Dad, I’m sorry I dumped you for my friends
Alan: When did you do that?
Cory: You know, all the time
Alan: Well, Cory, I’m glad that you have friends. And I’m glad you’re back. 
Cory & Alan:   No, don’t hug me!
Cory: Die!  Die!  Die!   Die!  Die!  Die! 
Eric:  You missed the puppy-looking thing in the corner
Cory: Die! 
Eric: There’s one we don’t have to neuter. 
Cory:  Five to three. The Phillies are in the playoffs
Eric: Yeah, I heard
Cory: What do you mean you heard? You were there
Eric: I really wasn’t paying that much attention to the game, Cory
Cory: Why not? It was a great game
Eric: It was not, however, a great date
Cory: You had a bad date?
Eric: No, I had a great date.  Heather was beautiful. She knew what to say, she knew what to do. Unfortunately, her date spilled food, tripped over chairs, and had nothing interesting to say for nine innings
Cory: Eric, you’re much too cool for some girl
Eric: News flash: I’m not cool!  You don’t know what you’re talking about
Cory: Okay, you’re not cool. And now you know better than to go to a game without your brother
Eric:  You’re right
Cory: I am?
Eric: Yeah, that’s my first and last date with Heather. I never want to see her again
Cory: Good.  You don’t mean that
Eric:  Yes, I do
Cory:  Here
Eric: What’s this?
Cory: Call her
Eric: Who?
Cory:  “Who?” Heather! My nemesis! Call her!
Eric: Why?
Cory: ‘Cause you’re sitting there, drooling and pathetic, and I know somewhere inside’s my cool brother. And I’m not gonna get him back unless you call her
Eric: Look.  I’m not calling her. I sat there all night and didn’t say anything. What could I say now?
Cory:  Take her to a movie. There, you’re supposed to sit and not say anything. A movie’s perfect for your current skill level. 
Eric: Why do you want me to call her?
Cory: I’m told love is worth it. 
Cory: Aren’t you going to invite me to have tea with you?  Morgan, I want you to know something. No matter how old I get, I’m always gonna be your big brother
Morgan: Sugar? 
Cory: And even if I ever – which I won’t – get interested in girls…
Morgan: Milk? 
Cory: …and it seems like I don’t care about you anymore…
Morgan: Ketchup? 
Cory: …I still always want you to invite me to have tea with you
Amy:  Morgan, honey, put your tea set away and brush your teeth. It’s time to go to bed
Morgan:  Do I have to?
Cory: You’re asking me?   How about if we just stay up and finish our tea?
Amy: You volunteering to put your sister to bed?
Cory:  Yeah, I guess I am
Amy: Why?
Cory:  ‘Cause I don’t understand anything about my entire life.   Yeah, thanks…
Nicolas: Two days in a row
Shawn: She just doesn’t learn
Feeny: Evelyn, I hope I’m not being too forward, but instead of cafeteria lunch, maybe one evening we could have dinner together?
Evelyn: Of course, George. I’d love it
Feeny: Good.   I’m quite the cook, you know
Evelyn: Really?
Feeny: Oh, yes. Just the other night, I prepared a lovely salad nicoise for my sister, but she had to cancel at the last moment.  Confused, Mr. Matthews?
Cory:  Yes I am, sir
Feeny: As it should be. 