After the hoping and the praying and the wishing
Girl, you're all up in my face
I've never been the one to bite my tongue.  
I have not one word to say.  
I'm mesmerized by your sexy eyes
And your soft and lovely skin.  
I want this fiasco to end, so baby, we can start all over again
Listen, I wanna be able
I wanna be able to love you.  Oh, I
I wanna be able and let me be the one to please you.  Oh, I
As sure as the sun shines all over the earth
You're one of God's most precious works
See, I'm a man and we make mistakes
So please don't take your love away.  Oh, ah
Don't take your love away.  
Baby, don't take your love away, baby
I need you girl
Don't take your love away.  
Don't take your love away
Don't take you love away from me, my baby
Don't take your love away, baby
Mama said "don't put your hands in the cookie jar."
She said, "Son, have control."
She said "everything that's sweet ain't good for you, no
And everything that glitters ain't gold."  
And now that you're gone
I realized  I lost my soul.  
And I don't wanna pass the torch
Baby, can you give me one more  chance
I wanna be able, 
Able to do everything I didin't do before for you, baby
 Listen, I wanna love you, oh, oh, oh, over and over again
Gotta hold myself together and stay strong
Baby, you've been gone too long
See, I'm a man and we make mistakes
So baby, baby, baby, don't take your love away
 I'll get down on my hands and knees
Begging, begging you please,  
 Don't, don't leave me now
 I need you right here with me
 Please, please, please, please, please, yeah
Don't take your love away
See, girl, I know that I hurt you so 
With all of those girls that were in my world.  
Now Stacy and Kim, damn all of them
Girl, I wanna give you everything that I can
 Oh, oh
I know you're tired of my games, 
Tired of my lies.  
Baby, this time I promise it'll be alright
 No longer will you ever be led astray
Baby, listen to the words I say
 Yeah, yeah
Yes.  Don't take your love, no.  
 I've been searching here and there, everywhere
 And can't find no one like you, girl
 Don't take your love away
Listen to me, lady, lady, lady.  
 Hmmm, hmmm, hmmm, hmmm, hmmm, hmmm