Enter CHORUS.
CHORUS
Learned Faustus,
To know the secrets of astronomy
Graven in the book of Jove's high firmament,
Did mount himself to scale Olympus' top,
Being seated in a chariot burning bright,
Drawn by the strength of yoky dragons' necks.
He now is gone to prove cosmography,
And, as I guess, will first arrive at Rome,
To see the Pope and manner of his court,
And take some part of holy Peter's feast,
That to this day is highly solemniz'd.
Enter FAUSTUS and MEPHISTOPHILIS.
FAUSTUS
Having now, my good Mephistophilis,
Pass'd with delight the stately town of Trier,
Environ'd round with airy mountain-tops,
With walls of flint, and deep-entrenched lakes,
Not to be won by any conquering prince;
From Paris next, coasting the realm of France,
We saw the river Maine fall into Rhine,
Whose banks are set with groves of fruitful vines;
Then up to Naples, rich Campania,
Whose buildings fair and gorgeous to the eye,
The streets straight forth, and pav'd with finest brick,
Quarter the town in four equivalents:
There saw we learned Maro's golden tomb,
The way he cut, an English mile in length,
Thorough a rock of stone, in one night's space;
From thence to Venice, Padua, and the rest,
In one of which a sumptuous temple stands,
That threats the stars with her aspiring top.
Thus hitherto hath Faustus spent his time:
But tell me now what resting-place is this?
Hast thou, as erst I did command,
Conducted me within the walls of Rome?
MEPHIST
Faustus, I have; and, because we will not be unprovided,
I have taken up his Holiness' privy-chamber for our use.
FAUSTUS
I hope his Holiness will bid us welcome.
MEPHIST
Tut, 'tis no matter; man; we'll be bold with his good cheer.
And now, my Faustus, that thou mayst perceive
What Rome containeth to delight thee with,
Know that this city stands upon seven hills
That underprop the groundwork of the same:
Just through the midst runs flowing Tiber's stream
With winding banks that cut it in two parts;
Over the which four stately bridges lean,
That make safe passage to each part of Rome:
Upon the bridge call'd Ponte Angelo
Erected is a castle passing strong,
Within whose walls such store of ordnance are,
And double cannons fram'd of carved brass,
As match the days within one complete year;
Besides the gates, and high pyramides,
Which Julius Caesar brought from Africa.
FAUSTUS
Now, by the kingdoms of infernal rule,
Of Styx, of Acheron, and the fiery lake
Of ever-burning Phlegethon, I swear
That I do long to see the monuments
And situation of bright-splendent Rome:
Come, therefore, let's away.
MEPHIST
Nay, Faustus, stay: I know you'd fain see the Pope,
And take some part of holy Peter's feast,
Where thou shalt see a troop of bald-pate friars,
Whose summum bonum is in belly-cheer.
FAUSTUS
Well, I'm content to compass then some sport,
And by their folly make us merriment.
Then charm me, that I
May be invisible, to do what I please,
Unseen of any whilst I stay in Rome.
MEPHIST
So, Faustus; now
Do what thou wilt, thou shalt not be discern'd.
Sound a Sonnet. Enter the POPE and the CARDINAL OF
LORRAIN to the banquet, with FRIARS attending.
POPE
My Lord of Lorrain, will't please you draw near?
FAUSTUS
Fall to, and the devil choke you, an you spare!
POPE
How now! who's that which spake?—Friars, look about.
FIRST FRIAR
Here's nobody, if it like your Holiness.
POPE
My lord, here is a dainty dish was sent me from the Bishop
of Milan.
FAUSTUS
I thank you, sir.
POPE
How now! who's that which snatched the meat from me? will
no man look?—My lord, this dish was sent me from the Cardinal
of Florence.
FAUSTUS
You say true; I'll ha't.
POPE
What, again!—My lord, I'll drink to your grace.
FAUSTUS
I'll pledge your grace.
C. OF LOR
My lord, it may be some ghost, newly crept out of
Purgatory, come to beg a pardon of your Holiness.
POPE
It may be so.—Friars, prepare a dirge to lay the fury
of this ghost.—Once again, my lord, fall to.
FAUSTUS
What, are you crossing of yourself?
Well, use that trick no more, I would advise you.
Well, there's the second time. Aware the third;
I give you fair warning.
[The POPE crosses himself again, and FAUSTUS hits him a box
of the ear; and they all run away.]
Come on, Mephistophilis; what shall we do?
MEPHIST
Nay, I know not: we shall be cursed with bell, book,
and candle.
FAUSTUS
How! bell, book, and candle,—candle, book, and bell,—
Forward and backward, to curse Faustus to hell!
Anon you shall hear a hog grunt, a calf bleat, and an ass bray,
Because it is Saint Peter's holiday.
Re-enter all the FRIARS to sing the Dirge.
FIRST FRIAR
Come, brethren, let's about our business with good devotion.
They sing.
CURSED BE HE THAT STOLE AWAY HIS HOLINESS' MEAT FROM THE
TABLE! maledicat Dominus!
CURSED BE HE THAT STRUCK HIS HOLINESS A BLOW ON THE FACE!
maledicat Dominus!
CURSED BE HE THAT TOOK FRIAR SANDELO A BLOW ON THE PATE!
maledicat Dominus!
CURSED BE HE THAT DISTURBETH OUR HOLY DIRGE! maledicat
Dominus!
CURSED BE HE THAT TOOK AWAY HIS HOLINESS' WINE! maledicat
Dominus? 
Et omnes Sancti! Amen!
[MEPHISTOPHILIS and FAUSTUS beat the FRIARS, and fling
fire-works among them; and so exeunt.]
Enter CHORUS.
CHORUS
When Faustus had with pleasure ta'en the view
Of rarest things, and royal courts of kings,
He stay'd his course, and so returned home;
Where such as bear his absence but with grief,
I mean his friends and near'st companions,
Did gratulate his safety with kind words,
And in their conference of what befell,
Touching his journey through the world and air,
They put forth questions of astrology,
Which Faustus answer'd with such learned skill
As they admir'd and wonder'd at his wit.
Now is his fame spread forth in every land:
Amongst the rest the Emperor is one,
Carolus the Fifth, at whose palace now
Faustus is feasted 'mongst his noblemen.
What there he did, in trial of his art,
I leave untold; your eyes shall see perform'd.
Enter ROBIN the Ostler, with a book in his hand.
ROBIN
O, this is admirable! here I ha' stolen one of Doctor
Faustus' conjuring-books, and, i'faith, I mean to search some
circles for my own use. Now will I make all the maidens in our
parish dance at my pleasure, stark naked, before me; and so
by that means I shall see more than e'er I felt or saw yet.
Enter RALPH, calling ROBIN.
RALPH
Robin, prithee, come away; there's a gentleman tarries
to have his horse, and he would have his things rubbed and made
clean: he keeps such a chafing with my mistress about it; and
she has sent me to look thee out; prithee, come away.
ROBIN
Keep out, keep out, or else you are blown up, you are
dismembered, Ralph: keep out, for I am about a roaring piece
of work.
RALPH
Come, what doest thou with that same book? thou canst
not read?
ROBIN
Yes, my master and mistress shall find that I can read,
he for his forehead, she for her private study; she's born to
bear with me, or else my art fails.
RALPH
Why, Robin, what book is that?
ROBIN
What book! why, the most intolerable book for conjuring
that e'er was invented by any brimstone devil.
RALPH
Canst thou conjure with it?
ROBIN
I can do all these things easily with it; first, I can
make thee drunk with ippocras at any tabern in Europe
for nothing; that's one of my conjuring works.
RALPH
Our Master Parson says that's nothing.
ROBIN
True, Ralph: and more, Ralph, if thou hast any mind to
Nan Spit, our kitchen-maid, then turn her and wind her to thy own
use, as often as thou wilt, and at midnight.
RALPH
O, brave, Robin! shall I have Nan Spit, and to mine own
use? On that condition I'll feed thy devil with horse-bread as
long as he lives, of free cost.
ROBIN
No more, sweet Ralph: let's go and make clean our boots,
which lie foul upon our hands, and then to our conjuring in the
devil's name.
Enter ROBIN and RALPH with a silver goblet.
ROBIN
Come, Ralph: did not I tell thee, we were for ever made
by this Doctor Faustus' book? ecce, signum! here's a simple
purchase for horse-keepers: our horses shall eat no hay as
long as this lasts.
RALPH
But, Robin, here comes the Vintner.
ROBIN
Hush! I'll gull him supernaturally.
Enter VINTNER.
Drawer, I hope all is paid; God be with you!—Come, Ralph.
VINTNER
Soft, sir; a word with you. I must yet have a goblet paid
from you, ere you go.
ROBIN
I a goblet, Ralph, I a goblet!—I scorn you; and you are
but a, &c. I a goblet! search me.
VINTNER
I mean so, sir, with your favour.
ROBIN
How say you now?
VINTNER
I must say somewhat to your fellow.—You, sir!
RALPH
Me, sir! me, sir! search your fill. 
Now, sir, you may be ashamed to burden honest men with a matter
of truth.
VINTNER
Well, tone of you hath this goblet about you.
ROBIN
You lie, drawer, 'tis afore me .—Sirrah you, I'll
teach you to impeach honest men;—stand by;—I'll scour you for
a goblet;—stand aside you had best, I charge you in the name of
Belzebub.—Look to the goblet, Ralph .
VINTNER
What mean you, sirrah?
ROBIN
I'll tell you what I mean.  Sanctobulorum
Periphrasticon—nay, I'll tickle you, Vintner.—Look to the goblet,
Ralph .— Polypragmos Belseborams framanto
pacostiphos tostu, Mephistophilis, &c.
Enter MEPHISTOPHILIS, sets squibs at their backs, and then
exit. They run about.
VINTNER
O, nomine Domini! what meanest thou, Robin? thou hast no
goblet.
RALPH
Peccatum peccatorum!—Here's thy goblet, good Vintner.
ROBIN
Misericordia pro nobis! what shall I do? Good devil, forgive
me now, and I'll never rob thy library more.
Re-enter MEPHISTOPHILIS.
MEPHIST
Monarch of Hell, under whose black survey
Great potentates do kneel with awful fear,
Upon whose altars thousand souls do lie,
How am I vexed with these villains' charms?
From Constantinople am I hither come,
Only for pleasure of these damned slaves.
ROBIN
How, from Constantinople! you have had a great journey:
will you take sixpence in your purse to pay for your supper, and
be gone?
MEPHIST
Well, villains, for your presumption, I transform thee
into an ape, and thee into a dog; and so be gone!
ROBIN
How, into an ape! that's brave: I'll have fine sport with
the boys; I'll get nuts and apples enow.
RALPH
And I must be a dog.
ROBIN
I'faith, thy head will never be out of the pottage-pot.
Enter EMPEROR, FAUSTUS, and a KNIGHT, with ATTENDANTS.
EMPEROR
Master Doctor Faustus, I have heard strange report
of thy knowledge in the black art, how that none in my empire
nor in the whole world can compare with thee for the rare effects
of magic: they say thou hast a familiar spirit, by whom thou canst
accomplish what thou list. This, therefore, is my request, that
thou let me see some proof of thy skill, that mine eyes may be
witnesses to confirm what mine ears have heard reported: and here
I swear to thee, by the honour of mine imperial crown, that,
whatever thou doest, thou shalt be no ways prejudiced or endamaged.
KNIGHT
I'faith, he looks much like a conjurer.
FAUSTUS
My gracious sovereign, though I must confess myself far
inferior to the report men have published, and nothing answerable
to the honour of your imperial majesty, yet, for that love and duty
binds me thereunto, I am content to do whatsoever your majesty
shall command me.
EMPEROR
Then, Doctor Faustus, mark what I shall say.
As I was sometime solitary set
Within my closet, sundry thoughts arose
About the honour of mine ancestors,
How they had won by prowess such exploits,
Got such riches, subdu'd so many kingdoms,
As we that do succeed, or they that shall
Hereafter possess our throne, shall
 ne'er attain to that degree
Of high renown and great authority:
Amongst which kings is Alexander the Great,
Chief spectacle of the world's pre-eminence,
The bright shining of whose glorious acts
Lightens the world with his reflecting beams,
As when I hear but motion made of him,
It grieves my soul I never saw the man:
If, therefore, thou, by cunning of thine art,
Canst raise this man from hollow vaults below,
Where lies entomb'd this famous conqueror,
And bring with him his beauteous paramour,
Both in their right shapes, gesture, and attire
They us'd to wear during their time of life,
Thou shalt both satisfy my just desire,
And give me cause to praise thee whilst I live.
FAUSTUS
My gracious lord, I am ready to accomplish your request,
so far forth as by art and power of my spirit I am able to perform.
KNIGHT
I'faith, that's just nothing at all.
FAUSTUS
But, if it like your grace, it is not in my ability
to present before your eyes the true substantial bodies of those
two deceased princes, which long since are consumed to dust.
KNIGHT
Ay, marry, Master Doctor, now there's a sign of grace in
you, when you will confess the truth.
FAUSTUS
But such spirits as can lively resemble Alexander and
his paramour shall appear before your grace, in that manner that
they both lived in, in their most flourishing estate; which
I doubt not shall sufficiently content your imperial majesty.
EMPEROR
Go to, Master Doctor; let me see them presently.
KNIGHT
Do you hear, Master Doctor? you bring Alexander and his
paramour before the Emperor!
FAUSTUS
How then, sir?
KNIGHT
I'faith, that's as true as Diana turned me to a stag.
FAUSTUS
No, sir; but, when Actaeon died, he left the horns for
you.—Mephistophilis, be gone.
KNIGHT
Nay, an you go to conjuring, I'll be gone.
FAUSTUS
I'll meet with you anon for interrupting me so.
—Here they are, my gracious lord.
Re-enter MEPHISTOPHILIS with SPIRITS in the shapes of ALEXANDER
and his PARAMOUR.
EMPEROR
Master Doctor, I heard this lady, while she lived, had a
wart or mole in her neck: how shall I know whether it be so or no?
FAUSTUS
Your highness may boldly go and see.
EMPEROR
Sure, these are no spirits, but the true substantial
bodies of those two deceased princes.
FAUSTUS
Wilt please your highness now to send for the knight
that was so pleasant with me here of late?
EMPEROR
One of you call him forth.
Re-enter the KNIGHT with a pair of horns on his head.
How now, sir knight! why, I had thought thou hadst been a bachelor,
but now I see thou hast a wife, that not only gives thee horns,
but makes thee wear them. Feel on thy head.
KNIGHT
Thou damned wretch and execrable dog,
Bred in the concave of some monstrous rock,
How dar'st thou thus abuse a gentleman?
Villain, I say, undo what thou hast done!
FAUSTUS
O, not so fast, sir! there's no haste: but, good, are
you remembered how you crossed me in my conference with the
Emperor? I think I have met with you for it.
EMPEROR
Good Master Doctor, at my entreaty release him: he hath
done penance sufficient.
FAUSTUS
My gracious lord, not so much for the injury he offered
me here in your presence, as to delight you with some mirth, hath
Faustus worthily requited this injurious knight; which being all
I desire, I am content to release him of his horns:—and,
sir knight, hereafter speak well of scholars.—Mephistophilis,
transform him straight. 
—Now, my good lord, having done my duty, I humbly take my leave.
EMPEROR
Farewell, Master Doctor: yet, ere you go,
Expect from me a bounteous reward.
FAUSTUS
Now, Mephistophilis, the restless course
That time doth run with calm and silent foot,
Shortening my days and thread of vital life,
Calls for the payment of my latest years:
Therefore, sweet Mephistophilis, let us
Make haste to Wertenberg.
MEPHIST
What, will you go on horse-back or on foot
FAUSTUS
Nay, till I'm past this fair and pleasant green,
I'll walk on foot.
Enter a HORSE-COURSER.
HORSE-COURSER
I have been all this day seeking one Master Fustian:
mass, see where he is!—God save you, Master Doctor!
FAUSTUS
What, horse-courser! you are well met.
HORSE-COURSER
Do you hear, sir? I have brought you forty dollars
for your horse.
FAUSTUS
I cannot sell him so: if thou likest him for fifty, take
him.
HORSE-COURSER
Alas, sir, I have no more!—I pray you, speak for
me.
MEPHIST
I pray you, let him have him: he is an honest fellow,
and he has a great charge, neither wife nor child.
FAUSTUS
Well, come, give me your money [HORSE-COURSER gives
FAUSTUS the money]: my boy will deliver him to you. But I must
tell you one thing before you have him; ride him not into the
water, at any hand.
HORSE-COURSER
Why, sir, will he not drink of all waters?
FAUSTUS
O, yes, he will drink of all waters; but ride him not
into the water: ride him over hedge or ditch, or where thou wilt,
but not into the water.
HORSE-COURSER
Well, sir.—Now am I made man for ever: I'll not
leave my horse for forty: if he had but the quality of
hey-ding-ding, hey-ding-ding, I'd make a brave living on him:
he has a buttock as slick as an eel .—Well, God b'wi'ye,
sir: your boy will deliver him me: but, hark you, sir; if my horse
be sick or ill at ease, if I bring his water to you, you'll tell
me what it is?
FAUSTUS
Away, you villain! what, dost think I am a horse-doctor?
What art thou, Faustus, but a man condemn'd to die?
Thy fatal time doth draw to final end;
Despair doth drive distrust into my thoughts:
Confound these passions with a quiet sleep:
Tush, Christ did call the thief upon the Cross;
Then rest thee, Faustus, quiet in conceit.
Re-enter HORSE-COURSER, all wet, crying.
HORSE-COURSER
Alas, alas! Doctor Fustian, quoth a? mass, Doctor
Lopus was never such a doctor: has given me a purgation, has
purged me of forty dollars; I shall never see them more. But yet,
like an ass as I was, I would not be ruled by him, for he bade me
I should ride him into no water: now I, thinking my horse had had
some rare quality that he would not have had me know of, I,
like a venturous youth, rid him into the deep pond at the town's
end. I was no sooner in the middle of the pond, but my horse
vanished away, and I sat upon a bottle of hay, never so near
drowning in my life. But I'll seek out my doctor, and have my
forty dollars again, or I'll make it the dearest horse!—O,
yonder is his snipper-snapper.—Do you hear? you, hey-pass,
where's your master?
MEPHIST
Why, sir, what would you? you cannot speak with him.
HORSE-COURSER
But I will speak with him.
MEPHIST
Why, he's fast asleep: come some other time.
HORSE-COURSER
I'll speak with him now, or I'll break his
glass-windows about his ears.
MEPHIST
I tell thee, he has not slept this eight nights.
HORSE-COURSER
An he have not slept this eight weeks, I'll
speak with him.
MEPHIST
See, where he is, fast asleep.
HORSE-COURSER
Ay, this is he.—God save you, Master Doctor,
Master Doctor, Master Doctor Fustian! forty dollars, forty dollars
for a bottle of hay!
MEPHIST
Why, thou seest he hears thee not.
HORSE-COURSER
So-ho, ho! so-ho, ho!  No,
will you not wake? I'll make you wake ere I go. [Pulls FAUSTUS
by the leg, and pulls it away.] Alas, I am undone! what shall
I do?
FAUSTUS
O, my leg, my leg!—Help, Mephistophilis! call the
officers.—My leg, my leg!
MEPHIST
Come, villain, to the constable.
HORSE-COURSER
O Lord, sir, let me go, and I'll give you forty
dollars more!
MEPHIST
Where be they?
HORSE-COURSER
I have none about me: come to my ostry,
and I'll give them you.
MEPHIST
Be gone quickly.
FAUSTUS
What, is he gone? farewell he! Faustus has his leg again,
and the Horse-courser, I take it, a bottle of hay for his labour:
well, this trick shall cost him forty dollars more.
Enter WAGNER.
How now, Wagner! what's the news with thee?
WAGNER
Sir, the Duke of Vanholt doth earnestly entreat your
company.
FAUSTUS
The Duke of Vanholt! an honourable gentleman, to whom
I must be no niggard of my cunning.—Come, Mephistophilis,
let's away to him.
Enter the DUKE OF VANHOLT, the DUCHESS, and FAUSTUS.
DUKE
Believe me, Master Doctor, this merriment hath much pleased
me.
FAUSTUS
My gracious lord, I am glad it contents you so well.
—But it may be, madam, you take no delight in this. I have heard
that great-bellied women do long for some dainties or other: what
is it, madam? tell me, and you shall have it.
DUCHESS
Thanks, good Master Doctor: and, for I see your courteous
intent to pleasure me, I will not hide from you the thing my heart
desires; and, were it now summer, as it is January and the dead
time of the winter, I would desire no better meat than a dish
of ripe grapes.
FAUSTUS
Alas, madam, that's nothing!—Mephistophilis, be gone.
 Were it a greater thing than this, so it
would content you, you should have it.
Re-enter MEPHISTOPHILIS with grapes.
Here they be, madam: wilt please you taste on them?
DUKE
Believe me, Master Doctor, this makes me wonder above the
rest, that being in the dead time of winter and in the month of
January, how you should come by these grapes.
FAUSTUS
If it like your grace, the year is divided into two
circles over the whole world, that, when it is here winter with
us, in the contrary circle it is summer with them, as in India,
Saba, and farther countries in the east; and by means of a
swift spirit that I have, I had them brought hither, as you see.
—How do you like them, madam? be they good?
DUCHESS
Believe me, Master Doctor, they be the best grapes that
e'er I tasted in my life before.
FAUSTUS
I am glad they content you so, madam.
DUKE
Come, madam, let us in, where you must well reward this
learned man for the great kindness he hath shewed to you.
DUCHESS
And so I will, my lord; and, whilst I live, rest
beholding for this courtesy.
FAUSTUS
I humbly thank your grace.
DUKE
Come, Master Doctor, follow us, and receive your reward.
Enter WAGNER.
WAGNER
I think my master means to die shortly,
For he hath given to me all his goods:
And yet, methinks, if that death were near,
He would not banquet, and carouse, and swill
Amongst the students, as even now he doth,
Who are at supper with such belly-cheer
As Wagner ne'er beheld in all his life.
See, where they come! belike the feast is ended.
Enter FAUSTUS with two or three SCHOLARS, and MEPHISTOPHILIS.
FIRST SCHOLAR
Master Doctor Faustus, since our conference about
fair ladies, which was the beautifulest in all the world, we have
determined with ourselves that Helen of Greece was the admirablest
lady that ever lived: therefore, Master Doctor, if you will do us
that favour, as to let us see that peerless dame of Greece, whom
all the world admires for majesty, we should think ourselves much
beholding unto you.
FAUSTUS
Gentlemen,
For that I know your friendship is unfeign'd,
And Faustus' custom is not to deny
The just requests of those that wish him well,
You shall behold that peerless dame of Greece,
No otherways for pomp and majesty
Than when Sir Paris cross'd the seas with her,
And brought the spoils to rich Dardania.
Be silent, then, for danger is in words.
SECOND SCHOLAR
Too simple is my wit to tell her praise,
Whom all the world admires for majesty.
THIRD SCHOLAR
No marvel though the angry Greeks pursu'd
With ten years' war the rape of such a queen,
Whose heavenly beauty passeth all compare.
FIRST SCHOLAR
Since we have seen the pride of Nature's works,
And only paragon of excellence,
Let us depart; and for this glorious deed
Happy and blest be Faustus evermore!
FAUSTUS
Gentlemen, farewell: the same I wish to you.
Enter an OLD MAN.
OLD MAN
Ah, Doctor Faustus, that I might prevail
To guide thy steps unto the way of life,
By which sweet path thou mayst attain the goal
That shall conduct thee to celestial rest!
Break heart, drop blood, and mingle it with tears,
Tears falling from repentant heaviness
Of thy most vile and loathsome filthiness,
The stench whereof corrupts the inward soul
With such flagitious crimes of heinous sin
As no commiseration may expel,
But mercy, Faustus, of thy Saviour sweet,
Whose blood alone must wash away thy guilt.
FAUSTUS
Where art thou, Faustus? wretch, what hast thou done?
Damn'd art thou, Faustus, damn'd; despair and die!
Hell calls for right, and with a roaring voice
Says, "Faustus, come; thine hour is almost come;"
And Faustus now will come to do thee right.
OLD MAN
Ah, stay, good Faustus, stay thy desperate steps!
I see an angel hovers o'er thy head,
And, with a vial full of precious grace,
Offers to pour the same into thy soul:
Then call for mercy, and avoid despair.
FAUSTUS
Ah, my sweet friend, I feel
Thy words to comfort my distressed soul!
Leave me a while to ponder on my sins.
OLD MAN
I go, sweet Faustus; but with heavy cheer,
Fearing the ruin of thy hopeless soul.
FAUSTUS
Accursed Faustus, where is mercy now?
I do repent; and yet I do despair:
Hell strives with grace for conquest in my breast:
What shall I do to shun the snares of death?
MEPHIST
Thou traitor, Faustus, I arrest thy soul
For disobedience to my sovereign lord:
Revolt, or I'll in piece-meal tear thy flesh.
FAUSTUS
Sweet Mephistophilis, entreat thy lord
To pardon my unjust presumption,
And with my blood again I will confirm
My former vow I made to Lucifer.
MEPHIST
Do it, then, quickly, with unfeigned heart,
Lest greater danger do attend thy drift.
FAUSTUS
Torment, sweet friend, that base and crooked age,
That durst dissuade me from thy Lucifer,
With greatest torments that our hell affords.
MEPHIST
His faith is great; I cannot touch his soul;
But what I may afflict his body with
I will attempt, which is but little worth.
FAUSTUS
One thing, good servant, let me crave of thee,
To glut the longing of my heart's desire,—
That I might have unto my paramour
That heavenly Helen which I saw of late,
Whose sweet embracings may extinguish clean
Those thoughts that do dissuade me from my vow,
And keep mine oath I made to Lucifer.
MEPHIST
Faustus, this, or what else thou shalt desire,
Shall be perform'd in twinkling of an eye.
Re-enter HELEN.
FAUSTUS
Was this the face that launch'd a thousand ships,
And burnt the topless towers of Ilium—
Sweet Helen, make me immortal with a kiss.—
Her lips suck forth my soul: see, where it flies!—
Come, Helen, come, give me my soul again.
Here will I dwell, for heaven is in these lips,
And all is dross that is not Helena.
I will be Paris, and for love of thee,
Instead of Troy, shall Wertenberg be sack'd;
And I will combat with weak Menelaus,
And wear thy colours on my plumed crest;
Yea, I will wound Achilles in the heel,
And then return to Helen for a kiss.
O, thou art fairer than the evening air
Clad in the beauty of a thousand stars;
Brighter art thou than flaming Jupiter
When he appear'd to hapless Semele;
More lovely than the monarch of the sky
In wanton Arethusa's azur'd arms;
And none but thou shalt be my paramour!
Enter the OLD MAN.
OLD MAN
Accursed Faustus, miserable man,
That from thy soul exclud'st the grace of heaven,
And fly'st the throne of his tribunal-seat!
Enter DEVILS.
Satan begins to sift me with his pride:
As in this furnace God shall try my faith,
My faith, vile hell, shall triumph over thee.
Ambitious fiends, see how the heavens smile
At your repulse, and laugh your state to scorn!
Hence, hell! for hence I fly unto my God.
Enter FAUSTUS, with SCHOLARS.
FAUSTUS
Ah, gentlemen!
FIRST SCHOLAR
What ails Faustus?
FAUSTUS
Ah, my sweet chamber-fellow, had I lived with thee,
then had I lived still! but now I die eternally. Look, comes
he not? comes he not?
SECOND SCHOLAR
What means Faustus?
THIRD SCHOLAR
Belike he is grown into some sickness by being
over-solitary.
FIRST SCHOLAR
If it be so, we'll have physicians to cure him.
—'Tis but a surfeit; never fear, man.
FAUSTUS
A surfeit of deadly sin, that hath damned both body
and soul.
SECOND SCHOLAR
Yet, Faustus, look up to heaven; remember God's
mercies are infinite.
FAUSTUS
But Faustus' offence can ne'er be pardoned: the serpent
that tempted Eve may be saved, but not Faustus. Ah, gentlemen,
hear me with patience, and tremble not at my speeches! Though
my heart pants and quivers to remember that I have been a student
here these thirty years, O, would I had never seen Wertenberg,
never read book! and what wonders I have done, all Germany can
witness, yea, all the world; for which Faustus hath lost both
Germany and the world, yea, heaven itself, heaven, the seat of
God, the throne of the blessed, the kingdom of joy; and must
remain in hell for ever, hell, ah, hell, for ever! Sweet friends,
what shall become of Faustus, being in hell for ever?
THIRD SCHOLAR
Yet, Faustus, call on God.
FAUSTUS
On God, whom Faustus hath abjured! on God, whom Faustus
hath blasphemed! Ah, my God, I would weep! but the devil draws in
my tears. Gush forth blood, instead of tears! yea, life and soul!
O, he stays my tongue! I would lift up my hands; but see, they
hold them, they hold them!
ALL
Who, Faustus?
FAUSTUS
Lucifer and Mephistophilis. Ah, gentlemen, I gave them
my soul for my cunning!
ALL
God forbid!
FAUSTUS
God forbade it, indeed; but Faustus hath done it: for
vain pleasure of twenty-four years hath Faustus lost eternal joy
and felicity. I writ them a bill with mine own blood: the date
is expired; the time will come, and he will fetch me.
FIRST SCHOLAR
Why did not Faustus tell us of this before,
that divines might have prayed for thee?
FAUSTUS
Oft have I thought to have done so; but the devil
threatened to tear me in pieces, if I named God, to fetch both
body and soul, if I once gave ear to divinity: and now 'tis too
late. Gentlemen, away, lest you perish with me.
SECOND SCHOLAR
O, what shall we do to save Faustus?
FAUSTUS
Talk not of me, but save yourselves, and depart.
THIRD SCHOLAR
God will strengthen me; I will stay with Faustus.
FIRST SCHOLAR
Tempt not God, sweet friend; but let us into the
next room, and there pray for him.
FAUSTUS
Ay, pray for me, pray for me; and what noise soever
ye hear, come not unto me, for nothing can rescue me.
SECOND SCHOLAR
Pray thou, and we will pray that God may have
mercy upon thee.
FAUSTUS
Gentlemen, farewell: if I live till morning, I'll visit
you; if not, Faustus is gone to hell.
ALL
Faustus, farewell.
FAUSTUS
Ah, Faustus,
Now hast thou but one bare hour to live,
And then thou must be damn'd perpetually!
Stand still, you ever-moving spheres of heaven,
That time may cease, and midnight never come;
Fair Nature's eye, rise, rise again, and make
Perpetual day; or let this hour be but
A year, a month, a week, a natural day,
That Faustus may repent and save his soul!
O lente, lente currite, noctis equi!
The stars move still, time runs, the clock will strike,
The devil will come, and Faustus must be damn'd.
O, I'll leap up to my God!—Who pulls me down?—
See, see, where Christ's blood streams in the firmament!
One drop would save my soul, half a drop: ah, my Christ!—
Ah, rend not my heart for naming of my Christ!
Yet will I call on him: O, spare me, Lucifer!—
Where is it now? 'tis gone: and see, where God
Stretcheth out his arm, and bends his ireful brows!
Mountains and hills, come, come, and fall on me,
And hide me from the heavy wrath of God!
No, no!
Then will I headlong run into the earth:
Earth, gape! O, no, it will not harbour me!
You stars that reign'd at my nativity,
Whose influence hath allotted death and hell,
Now draw up Faustus, like a foggy mist.
Into the entrails of yon labouring cloud,
That, when you vomit forth into the air,
My limbs may issue from your smoky mouths,
So that my soul may but ascend to heaven!
Ah, half the hour is past! 'twill all be past anon
O God,
If thou wilt not have mercy on my soul,
Yet for Christ's sake, whose blood hath ransom'd me,
Impose some end to my incessant pain;
Let Faustus live in hell a thousand years,
A hundred thousand, and at last be sav'd!
O, no end is limited to damned souls!
Why wert thou not a creature wanting soul?
Or why is this immortal that thou hast?
Ah, Pythagoras' metempsychosis, were that true,
This soul should fly from me, and I be chang'd
Unto some brutish beast! all beasts are happy,
For, when they die,
Their souls are soon dissolv'd in elements;
But mine must live still to be plagu'd in hell.
Curs'd be the parents that engender'd me!
No, Faustus, curse thyself, curse Lucifer
That hath depriv'd thee of the joys of heaven.
O, it strikes, it strikes! Now, body, turn to air,
Or Lucifer will bear thee quick to hell!
O soul, be chang'd into little water-drops,
And fall into the ocean, ne'er be found!
Enter DEVILS.
My God, my god, look not so fierce on me!
Adders and serpents, let me breathe a while!
Ugly hell, gape not! come not, Lucifer!
I'll burn my books!—Ah, Mephistophilis!
Enter CHORUS.
CHORUS
Cut is the branch that might have grown full straight,
And burned is Apollo's laurel-bough,
That sometime grew within this learned man.
Faustus is gone: regard his hellish fall,
Whose fiendful fortune may exhort the wise,
Only to wonder at unlawful things,
Whose deepness doth entice such forward wits
To practice more than heavenly power permits.
Terminat hora diem; terminat auctor opus.