And you've been telling us that the jingles need to be shorter
One radio station, one vital channel of communication is the single voice that can speak for it all
Now listen
Mark, you just claimed a one-hundred-dollar bill!
Oh my god!
One hundred dollars, Mark!
I don't believe it 
One hundred dollars!
Oh my god, I'm having a heart attack, oh, this is...!
Hundred dollar bill!
Fantastic!
You like that?
This is intense!
The modulators
Cut 5 
Now let's add timpani to accent call letters  
Now let's add the orchestra  
Increase identity with vehicles that will increase flow
That's the idea, IDs that hit hard and hit running
Shotguns intros and accents on each letter of your call
IDs to increase flow out of stopsets
We call this series "The Propellets"
New sugar-free Dr Pepper
It tastes as good as regular Dr Pepper
With the Propellet insert cuts, your personalities are tied to your call letters
Notice how the orchestra accents the call letters to drive home your logo
How often should jingles be played? 
Let's face facts 
A Top 40 station's average listening span is lucky to be only 11 minutes 
You must identify yourself within your audience's listening span
You also need enough musical identification to avoid predictability
Now, something different, Cut 8
Flow activation. That means keeping the energy flow constant between elements, whether or not those elements complement one another
...up to nine DJ shows
Plus over thirty special electronic components for use in contests, production, and as personal identifiers for each DJ
Dick Vaughn's Moribund Music of the 70s
Please come along with Dick as he officially offers you this last-chance excursion into yesteryear, for soon the path will be overgrown and lost forever
From January 1st, 1970, to December 31st, 1979, we've got your Moribund Music
Powerful identification and increased flow
All tempos are covered, fast, moderate, and slow
And your promo lines are handled with the Propellet insert cuts
Mister Joe Simon for Coke
W  CFM
Today and tomorrow only
W  CFM
The insert cuts also enable you to handle a cold-start transition smoothly
Today and tomorrow only 
Today and tomorrow only, top-selling stereo LPs, sale priced at just $2.66, eight-track tapes now only $4.44. Featuring a fantastic assortment of best-sellers from Billboard Magazine's Top 100, including LPs and tapes by: The Jackson Five, The Carpenters, Elton John, Neil Young, Cat Stevens, Black Sabbath, James Taylor, and Ike and Tina Turner
More specially selected favorites are coming up in just minutes
So keep listening 
I'm Jimi Miller with news headlines for December 1978. In the news this month, US space probes strike Venus on target. The average price of regular gasoline soars to 76.7 cents per gallon. A killer twister rocks the northwestern Louisiana to the tune of one hundred million dollars, as Leif Garrett dances his way into the Top 10 for the very last time
The power, ideas and imagery 
Brass, strings, percussion
The power is ideas in station imagery
And it won't take even a second longer on the air, because the logo statement and reinforcement is woven throughout the instrumental background, giving you an exciting way to accentuate your message
You can hear the power, let your listeners feel it
It's called the power, because it's solid reinforcement of your program