Tsunami warning
You the one that's tryna keep your business low-key, huh? 
You the one that's having your main nigga, can't get no sleep, huh? 
You the one who walk around on fleek, huh? 
You the one that started from the bottom but you've reached your peak, huh? 
You taught her how to swallow with no teeth, huh?
Make them dollars out the street, huh? 
Baddest bitch you ever seen, huh? 
You the one who split the guap with your team, huh? 
You the one who drink a lotta codeine, huh? 
Ayy, ayy I like this shit, this shit take me back to the '99, 2000
Ayy, ayy, I got shorties out tryna find me, that look
Slipping through the cracks 'cause I'm slimy, I slipped
Chain wetter than a river you could cry me
Quick to Timberlake a bitch, now she despise me, I swear
I just let the money energize me
Nigga, you was in your 20s in the '90s, yeah
I just order Phantoms off the website
They ask how I want the shit, I say, "Surprise me"
Ayy, yeah, look
She wanna hang when the album drop, that's timely
Ayy, got a present for my oppers, word to Smiley
I know her man, gotta move her from beside me I swear
She got ice in all her veins 
She gon' change worrying about the wrong things 
If the paparazzi catch her, she'll be famous 
Got to move low-key with the gangsters
Do what you do girl, flex with your gang 
Let's call the boys up  Lambos gon' swing 
Who that making noise?  Gang-Gang 
Got a new crib, with a shooting range, get a professional aim 
You was up, now you fell off 
Then you pull up, all cap better knock it off 
I might get caught with my side bitch 
'Cause I put my main bitch in the cockpit
Bad bitches and they lit 
I just told 'em, "Flip the switch" 
Gang 'round, with the shits 
I just told 'em, "Flip the switch" 
Switch it
Flip that ho switch
You the one that's tryna keep your business low-key, huh? 
You the one that's having your main nigga, can't get no sleep, huh? 
You the one who walk around on fleek, huh? 
You the one that started from the bottom but you reached your peak, huh? 
You taught her how to swallow with no teeth, huh?
Make them dollars out the street, huh? 
Baddest bitch you ever seen, huh? 
You the one who split the guap with your team, huh? 
You the one who drink a lotta codeine, huh? 