They say nuns pray to JC
Fuck no
You ain't fuckin' scary
I'm a different Nun
I'll tell your son, "Fuck you, your mother, and who ya mother marry ."
Can't prepare for me
Souls, I don't leave without
Exorcisms: mixin' Nun and JC bring the demons out
Let's take him to church! But in here, it's no hope
I wrote these verses in red - this a God you could quote
Let's alter  what you offering - a sacrificial GOAT?
Confession! What you acquires  an ass-whippin' I'll administer  while I beat him to a pulp !
Now watch me hustle  like Nip' wit' it
You ain't learn from Mac Miller
I seen the addict you were
I thought, "Take a Lil Peep in the mirror."
Ain't you concerned?
What you bake, snort, Pop, Smoke - what you prefer?
Hell, take some mo'
Three X's will leave him Juiced, World!
Rest in Peace!
It's a lot of dead rappers
Fake head tapper, lead clapper
That think we  too white to make a pump a nickel  rise, I wasn't corn bred 
Bastard you lame, what you gain for? Your real vices?
This white rapper ain't B. Rabbit and I don't play, boy 
I'm 'bout to make noise
Bang mine
Raise my stock and the morgues; at the same time!
This lame'll die for the games he play
I ain't name flippin' this bitch rapper when I catch a case, see J? 
These writers got Big Smoke like GTA
He ain't, in recovery or a gangsta, don't believe that
JC pop and and peel , no it's a relapse
You crackhead, junkie
How you on SMACK when you not on Caffeine?
I told him, "kick rocks", he said, "I'm tryin' to get clean."
Bro if it ain't Tik Tok, we ain't tryin' to watch your Battle Rap Fiend
But I ain't earn this shot, what you believe
But everything I touch burn like Jubilee
Truthfully, you ain't been schooled enough, that's true and see 
Julian wouldn't play with me if I was Scuba Steve
Now fuck JC, this smoke for sure
You remind me of Aye Verb, not for the bars of course
But you wanted to Murda Loaded, but after the Miss Hustle we ain't gonna see your face no more
Oh, you shootin' pistols huh? I'm shootin' witchu
Talkin' body bitch, the body bitch, you think you official ?
I'm in Pontiac, it's a body bag, my homie found one
We ain't jump in  that bitch yet cause we ain't 'round one
Before the round done, you gotta cope wit' it
I just hope you don't overdose on the dopest pen 'til they tellin' you my condolences
Oh you know this is, a 7th inning stretch before you can win it
Know that you gon' strike out, still you racin' to pen it 
Any Ill Will and you admiring  MAC's  I'm on ya block wit' it
Goin' in ya corner this time out like white children
Your addiction, my position, both come with a few perks 
I get it, he knew you first so you get paid more, but what's dude worth?
We don't really like that Math like Tsu Surf
The nerve, of a hater, think he won't get murked for paper
Me and you don't see eye to eye, like you and a third grader
You fuckin' small fry
Pipsqueak
Told you you'd get ya wish bitch and be six feet
Fuck you talkin' 'bout man
Yo! Ain't this that one dude
That Nunn dude
That one who on every card that he rap he end up stallin' up Smack
That one dude
You know, came up crawling up back out that tournament like he was all in his bag
You know!
That one dude
Had it mapped out
Turn by turn, and still lost on the app
Bitch the only reason, I'm agreeing to kill you
Cause with something as uncertain as death, I like to plan it
And contrary to lame nigga belief, my presence is quite demanding
But it's the shit that I spend money on from these shits that deals twice the damage
I might replace some of my countertops with some of this bag; I literally take life for granted 
Don't come in this bitch thinkin' we sparring goofball
Niggas come in here thinkin' it's boxin' drills then they all get held up
See when I think of "box" and "drills", it's only coffins nailed shut
You had to tempt me
Now you get everything 'til the mag' is empty
You know you wasn't even the third option, they asked me plenty
I told 'em, this nigga barely worth a bill; like Savage Fenty
Are you gettin' me? I do this shit lyrically
They can't even duplicate what I do, there's not even Mini-Me's
You gotta be explosive to bring down a building with nothing plain ; no conspiracies
But I'm an actual problem
And you asked for the problem
Like all the ass whoopings and shit I done gave out and you had to come by
Shit made me question myself, like, "Are you that bad of a problem?
I mean, you do get a lot of wins. You go on the app and just rob 'em
You gotta be some sort of savage or goblin
Some sort of gargoyle...if even on the stats you  a monster."
When it comes to being sick, I've made symptoms
L.A. to V.A. all became crippled by y'all same system and I've had you melting since
L.A./V.A. , see y'all been like Pompeii victims
And I've had cruise options, tools poppin'
Takin' somebody like Nunn Nunn, just an easy reason to hit a Target
Now we back to school shoppin'
Niggas ask me why I don't take breaks much
Shit, I guess it's simple
I'm from Michigan, too much time out could be detrimental
Plus, we been past had it locked
When we have our shots we don't rock the room the same, facts or not
We cut different
I'm a blade you a trimmer, it's just the aftershock
But you asked for it, so I got it for ya
Main conversation, dot is on ya
You won't even know who's shootin' like Ah di lawyer
We'll just track him home, crack his bones when we let it sing
I will literally run through all these battlers 'til Smack ain't got shit to stream
And I got shit inside of my walls reserved for the bones y'all leave at every scene
I won't stop 'til all them niggas sittin' there
This cat will comb  through everything
'Til I run outta space
Oh you a foam fingered, cheering in the stands type of fan
Yeah, I can tell you one by the face
You play wit' me, that hammer like a good mind, it's one out the waist 
And it'll have you talkin' to a dot like, "Alexa...play...with somebody safe."
Cause I'm not the one
Fuckin' goofball
I'm not the one, even his backup hit
With an Eagle I'm accurate
And you know the shit usually cook
And y'all know the saying, a bird in the hand could be worth two in the bush
I laid 'em both out
Sideways, like Fridays I'm only here to close out the weak 
But you know not to speak
Go ahead, bring ya fam' in , I make sure nobody eat
It's JC
No Christian bars to the reaper
Nothing you do will finna save ya
I'm only doin' them a favor
But you can blame Caffeine
Y'all didn't want me to call a white boy "trash" you shouldn't have threw him in the trailer
It's body bags at every battle
This 'bout to get biblical
They got JC booked, now how that measure up?
Do the math , you Mark-ed out, Luke warm, worse than John, dead to us
These Judges, do Numbers, that lead'll bust
You roamin'  around, actin' like a King, but you gon' exit dust 
Now I was, Kirk Franklin, I always showed JC love
Then I got that phone call, now you get ya bitch ass sonned
I ain't done
Fo' Fo'? Wild strong
What bark in his face? Aye, big dawg
I keep a bag, my Hitman, will take your face off 
How you told Babs she got all these bitches Making Da Band and this battle look like a cake walk
This is Christian Mingle, a match for JC
That's a body, bagged on the app for JC
Call Jaz, dispatch for JC
We need IV's like the Horsemen, it's a rap for JC
I'ma walk with JC
Let's have faith as I talk with JC
Let us pray, I'll give ya rooftop Dots, ya cap Elevates
Good thing we on the west, Gotti will get ya wig replaced
You won't see the light  of Day
Think you too cold? I'll turn ya face to a fire place
Annihilate, this hoe dead
I got a .45 and a .22 that hold lead
He 4'5", he be 2'2" with no legs
I rolled up, buckin' the nose for a coke head
Shell case, ballistically, thinkin' the way you was de-famed is sickening
Know why no one thinks this plate is interesting?
Cause you're JC, and no one says your name initially!
You give us the same plate and expect bigger plates for you
But you don't create, you recycle, the shit ain't new
You told Nitty, "the scar will haunt you, like Ray Finkle, with the laces out"
Told Flamez, "you'll lay sis'  out like Ray Finkle", that ain't the same to you?
Fuck ya lame excuse, we are bored of you
Surf and Lux think that you are horrible
Pass the torch to who?
Bitch I'ma watch you pass while I torture you
"Okey doke. Nunn gon' kill him."
"No he won't."
Sheeit, let this hoe approach, you put a nun  in front of JC and caught a holy ghost
Now watch a pro
Smack was lookin' to check, he found it
But it's Mr. Shot Perfect, huh? Doubt it
But I don't criticize, I break forms down, I'm The Accountant
Who countin', on you winning? Dude trippin'
Better have an army and know what to do wit' it
In general, you ain't a soldier, ain't no proof in it
In private, he'll call the officer if there's loot in it 
This is suicide you walkin' in
You ain't catch the soldier scheme cause you from Pontiac, I've been warrin'  Michigan
Verse two, knock you out, try this shit again
Twork and Drugz, the third gon' compliment
I said, "Bring me the best, go 'head and lock it in
I could really shoot at a king. I think I'm Little Tim."
This battle shit? Kinda strange
Every predictions the fuckin' same
If you so much better than me, please explain how I beat the person that bodied you and made my fuckin' name
I'm appalled with, y'all wit', I'm off this
How you made game stop  and raise stock when
Y'all prefer sellin' this old base, soft shit
It's fuckin' boring
You know what I think's wild?
You'll take your chain off for a pedophile but come in here with no fuckin' performance
It's fuckin' annoying
If I smack the shit out you right now, no warning
You ain't gon' do shit but what JC does and forgive me for it
Ain't y'all embarrassed?
No, this is what y'all cherish, this clown appearance that don't even sound fearless
These ratchets going live and you'll get fired like Paul Pierce
The fuck you talking to? I'm tired of fake bitches
I'm starting to realize why Arsonal hate midgets
You fucking small fry
Pipsqueak
I told you, you'd get your wish bitch, and be six feet
The fuck you talkin' to man
We back at it, we back at it
Nunn Nunn, this shit still Duck Hunt
Been rapping circles around you niggas...duck duck
And y'all niggas be screaming, "Oh it's a dream to battle JC"
Well wake the fuck up
It's a veteran amongst you
In this ring, I've never been in trouble
But y'all showing a lot of fucking fatigue with that schedule in the bubble
I mean, JC vs. Chilla, that happened when I first came
When niggas thought I should chill and I had him drowning in defeat 
I'm too cold to ever rest 
That was then, imagine what I'm amounting  in my peak
This is what I'm becoming
I will flush white like the government coming
They say, "You nobody 'til somebody kills you"
Now watch me none  into somethin'
I'ma send a whole clip through you
But that revolver like a cougar, don't do shit but spin  on dudes
With a full chamber
You know, a name on every bullet, that's six into you 
Do you get it now? Oh the way I write is like sorcery, you gotta spell it out
The choppers comin', Glocks is dumpin'
I squeeze 'til the clips empty and I'm forced to give it up...I literally stop at nothing
The shit is crucial
You dyin' in the fight for your dumb ass life, it's gettin' brutal
But you wasn't even supposed to be standin' receiving the bullets I'm sendin' through you
And I guess that's why all you stand ins take me, and the feeling's mutual
Oh it's been goin' for some time
Y'all just been standing with the rifle waiting for y'all to step over the line
Y'all got catch phrases, special moves, all this shit that can't find a home in our mind
If you need somebody to witness yo' signature, that's where you should know to resign 
But nobody tell him nothin'
Cause don't nobody take blood serious, until it's running
Then it get very ugly
A home body could get stuck on the couch, smokin', like Peggy Bundy
I'm talkin' large biscuits
Car tinted
I heard Nunn Nunn finally took a stand, and was a star witness
That's why we pulled up
Yeah, with a van full of niggas, waiting on the dance reference; and we all dishin' 
I'm hazardous right now
One shot/one kill
I've taken the art of mastering my rounds
That's why for the cash, I'm addressing Nunn  like Ben Affleck in The Town
I get so deep in zones, that your death can be eminent
I know you gotta a bigger list of niggas you creepin' on
What you thinkin'? N.O.M.E.?
Summer Madness?
I've cleaned those roads
No headlining with Twork, and by the time September land, won't be a single soul
Cause I've killed everything
And I won't miss a beat
But you will, and you'll be social distanced deep
He zigged, tried to zag and got caught lying like a line on a polygraph; in the street
I'm talkin' front pages, I dump gauges
All that shit can happen off one statement
Watch ya mouth
It's gonna be way too late for, "No offense", when it's none  taken
It's too unfair what I do
Especially when I've been so much like Mike lately
And you've been freezing cold since Suge ruined you
I'm talkin' 'Ice, Ice, Baby'
But still, nobody pay him anything, cause he don't make you anything
Y'all bitches experimenting with this white boy like Jamie Kennedy
But y'all hold y'all breath
Cause these niggas been donating their organs for free
And I've been around this bitch for about ten years; fortunately
You remember Cardi B was a ring card girls at one of the battles, of course for a fee
But even she not even more important to the Kulture  than me
Round two
Now don't you pay him anything
Cause he gon' smoke that shit up...and you don't know the difference
I'm gettin' tired of these battle rap bitches
"It's a dream to battle-" no it isn't
Talkin' 'bout you'll turn Nunn  into somethin'
Motherfucka you'll get ragged  for riches
I ain't playin' witchu
I'm battlin' a fuckin' has-been...say it ain't true
I was for sure you'd get Loaded, I was on that run witchu
I was watchin' as a fan but you ain't have fun, did you?
Soon as you ran into T-Top, poof, lucks  done witchu
You are a participation trophy
I don't see ya
As an opportunity for me, I don't believe ya
They gotcha back to square one, where they need ya
URL security guard but y'all call it a "gatekeeper"
And our keys opening doors you wasn't able to move
Getting Real sick  of you trying to Elevate so real rap for you
I'm from an Ave that defines  what makes ya Shine in lieu  of a Swamp where we talk Geechi
Easy  Captain, I don't Roc witchu
It's you on Rum, J , I got a Don's DNA
The Top to work  nothin' to prove
You talk through my round? That's when the murder lands 
Got a double M packed , let's make it a 2 on 2
Now open that door bitch like I need from you
Assault and battery, hands and feet on you
House arrest with a bracelet for JC, what would Jesus do?
What I'm penning  is good writtens 
Cookin', like Gucci, don't nobody fuck wit' my kitchen
Now y'all, sit back, listen
To this role, JC actin' like Mel Gibson
Let me say this, if you on 4-6
Chaos would've stole you for that horse shit
Screamin', "I know!" but you don't know shit
You think you a battle rap king, and you well off
Bitch you lookin' at the reason you fell off
Bitch, the hell wit' ya God Complex
I'll stomp him 'til there's blood in my kicks; Lil' Nas X
You gotta stop this, we don't know who is you
You go to Chucky Cheese and blend in with the kids we don't know who is who
You gon' sit up here and lie, how many times you ain't fuckin' shoot?
Smack gon' say you fucked up with battle like Murda Mook
Now take a look in that mirror you hiding from
C'mon Julian where'd you get this lyin' from?
Writer's Bloque got dyin' stock, the members tried to run
Cause J  fucked up the team worse than Island Rum
You fathered what? Someone call him Maury
Could at least say, "Thanks for beating Loso for me"
Smack should've left yo' ass like Maul and Rory
I finally made it y'all, look, Smack got a gnome  for me
I'm a middle eastern kid, I was raised to shoot
Who in to mask? Us 
My guys are  outside, they won't play witchu
Give Siri ya  address, pull up, I could wait 
You know the guns I do buy  is real  when they under ya bay roots 
You a fuckin' bar thief, check the bit rate, ain't a clear review
Them backward 10-4's deserve a 4/10 {gun cocks} and it's the perfect date for you
Ya skills? Below average, so they degrading you
I feel like Quavo, I gotta push this bitch to elevate witchu?
Fuck it, I grab the grip and then take a trip out to Michigan
Pull a pistol and little Julian trembling
Entry wound sizzling, exit wound whistling
Knowing I got the baby for JC, it ain't a christening
You listening?
You ain't worth respect
You ain't a motherfuckin' man, you a birth defect
You a crackhead that ain't make a purchase yet
I told Smack I was worth a check
The only thing you like in the future is Percocet
Molly Percocet
You fuckin' crackhead, junkie, small fry, pipsqueak
You go out to eat and get crayons and a booster seat
You keep fuckin' with me, you gon' get ya wish bitch and be six feet
Fuck you talkin' to?
I....am so much better than you at whatever you do
There's no way this match up will ever be undecided
Fuck the violence, I gotta beat my last performance
I'm patient, but I'm just chasing myself, like Shutter Island
The tre-eight is cookin'
It'll lift him faster than Blake in Brooklyn
And you mighta heard about it
All the cans sprayin', putting nun  on a wall and he didn't even get a mural out it
It was devastating
But never mind that, let's talk about how what I do is unmatched, on every basis
I bring a special kind of war to  marks, it proves I can't be replicated
But I owe you an ass whoopin' for these kinds of moments
I be hearin' that bullshit you be sayin' when you be thinkin' I'm out of focus
"JC must've been perc'd up"
Yup, full of 30's and it's time to show it
Fuck you niggas thought I lived under a bridge? I was trollin'
You thought I missed it, but unfortunately for you, you bought a visit
Thinking it's always performance when they talk the slick shit
That's why I win, I'm gon' FED, I want conviction
I hate that angle these lame niggas take wit' me
Like me gettin' thousands to beat y'all senseless is slavery
Do y'all know how much they payin' me?
All I hear from y'all is, "Your name too big to be takin' me
You too great for me
You shouldn't be on the stage with me."
Bitch! How 'bout thankin' me
I never said that. I never said that
Hoe you kidding me? You know where our status at?
How else do you think you can get this close intentionally?
Your name don't even hold their memory
You know how quietly I could get white washed?
They won't even know your history
Bitch I had to come serve ya
So go ahead and talk through a round and gladly get murdered
I'll never put my fuckin' pen down, I even write these battles in cursive
That's elegance, a better pen
And to kill I specialize in a few ways
I'm in my prime, ask the subscribers
Shit, now you can get this delivery in a few days
With no emotions
I told Smack for this murder I needed it to be done with no feelings
But I asked for a bigger name
I told Smack for this murder I needed it to be done with no fill ins
But y'all niggas shook
I mean y'all niggas think I'm wandering but I'm not as lost as you look
It's crazy, when y'all get caught roaming  with JC and don't get the same results from the book
That's why I win
{Nunn Nunn mouths to the camera, "I said that"
JC: I said it better
Nunn Nunn: No you didn't
That's why I win
And to be honest the money feel better off the muscle
I got an electric slide, I could tap and put a band together with my hustle
This is why they hand you a name
Goofy fuck, I wasn't even a fan when you came
You probably flew your only fan on a plane
Type of guy to write some lies and act like he wasn't forcing to land, just like when your ancestors came
Don't get me started
This was supposed to be about who the bigger artist
It's not about race
Even though there we're ahead by a bigger margin
You gotta start thinkin' witcha brain
There's a drug pandemic in your community, let me peep you to the game
Since you done already proved you can't keep up in the lane
And Smack gotta keep giving you shots off the arm
Everything you need will be in vain 
It is over with
Overdose from the dopest pen
Somebody come rope this bitch, my condolenses