XPWEW Friday Night Pyro #430
Episode: 430
June 12th, 2020
The Barracks
Los Angeles, California
Pyro ignites and we are introduced to our commentary team Kaitlyn Khaos and Nick Simmonds as they discuss the events tonight
Ruckus enters with The Set
Alveno La Flare enters
XPWEW World Heavyweight Championship  1 on 1
Casket Match ] M1: Ruckus defeats Alveno La Flare
The match hits a climatic apex when mid match, Jordan Oliver comes out of a casket and dropkicks Alveno off the apron into the casket below and quick as a cat, Ruckus jumps on the lid and puts his body on top thus shutting the casket and using his body weight to hold it down as Ruckus wins and successfully retains his world title for the 2nd time. Myron Reed, Kotto Brazil and Chrissy Rivera push the casket up the ramp and then they turn around and get a running start and they push the casket down the ramp with a gust of velocity, the casket lid opens mid ramp and Alveno sees the ring and the casket turns over and crashes as Ruckus kicks Alveno around who just took the sickest bump of his career. Masato Tanaka comes down and fights Ruckus punch for punch to which The Set is about to get involved but both Jacques Dudley and Leonard McGraw come down and attack The Set and clear the air of them and fighting together arm in arm, now Leonard and Jacques must do battle 1 on 1 with the winner qualifying for the playhouse
Backstage: Romeo Roselli is prepping All Woman and complimenting her dress All Woman: It’s a big night, I just hope it doesn’t get ruined y’know Romeo: Don’t worry about Death Machines. Let me worry about Gacy and Carbine. This is your night
The Devil’s Playhouse Men’s Qualifying Match 1 on 1
M2: Leonard McGraw defeats Jacques Dudley
After the match: XPWEW International Champion Jake Awesome comes out in a suit with the title on his waist and speaks from the ramp toward McGraw in the ring who has just qualified for a world title chamber match and also has to challenge Jake 1 on 1 for the International Title all on the same night. Jake: Bold, Now you have two things to worry about. The Devil’s Playhouse, a structure I know very very well and I can say that because I’ve won every single one No! Correction! I survived them Now you wanna bite off more than you can chew. I like that attitude but your gonna look absolutely ridiculous if you think your gonna get past me, your gonna enter Satan’s chamber either in a wheelchair or a body bag. Leonard: Well you confident son of a bitch. I’ve been called every insult in the damn book, hell are you calling me dumb? You’re calling me an idiot? Huh? Well Jake your gonna look like a moron when I say this next little diddy? Jake: huh? Leonard: How bout this, Me and you, 1 on 1. Last Man Standing! Jake: I guess if you’re gonna be dumb, You gotta be tough and your ass is on crowd pops
Backstage: Masato Tanaka is in the trainers room holding ice to the back of his head
Golden Bryce enters Tanaka........what? Bryce: You want a reaction outta me I know it, Well I’m not going to give you the satisfaction.... Bryce walks away
GT & Bedlam enter
3M3 enter
Nick Simmonds points out the winner of this match has to be put into serious tag title contention
Tag Team Match
M3: Garrett Thompson and Ethan Bedlam defeats “3M3” 
Backstage: women’s champion Priscilla Kelly is laid out backstage, trainers cater to her injury. Lotus appears cracking her knuckles to which Rosemary laughs menacingly
Backstage: All Man is adjusting the bow tie on his tuxedo and in the reflection of the mirror Joe Gacy and Audrey Carbine is looking at him, he turns around and no one Is there but BIG POPPA PUMP himself The Big Bad Booty Daddy Scott Steiner “Tonight it’s about the late night, sure the pompy and circumstance is oh so beautiful but remember to consummate the marriage” All Man? Sex? Scott Steiner walks off Moron
Genevalisse enters
Kiera Hogan enters
The Devil’s Playhouse Women’s Qualifying Match 1 on 1
M4: Kiera Hogan defeats Genevalisse
Backstage: Champagne Clausen enters The Set’s locker room
Listen guys were all alike, and I’m in that chamber match too just know I’m willing to team up
Ruckus: ain’t no teams
Champagne: but we can work together
Ruckus: until the end?
Champagne: I’m willing to compromise and I know you like a good payday
Ruckus: If you and your rich daddy weren’t beefing, I’d probably fall for this little stunt, get the hell out my face
Champagne: Or what...?
The Set encroaches
Champagne: Every man for themself, Good day
Ruckus stares off... oh yeah and Troy Clausen! Aha! Nigga I know you watching? What happened to PK? Huh, I think my girl Chrissy just qualified for the playhouse hahahaha, It ain’t safe Kells 
Former Pyro GM, Reverend and Wedding Planner and Ultimate Master of ceremonies Romeo Roselli enters
All Man enters with his best man Scott Steiner Romeo begins the ceremony
Steiner interrupts to read off some words of his own that begin very funny but actually are very Kind, I mean after all he is from a highly educated university Romeo informs us All Man wrote his own vowels and as he goes to read them
lights go dark
A wooden box appears at ringside and it’s 4 puppets in the likeness of Romeo, Steiner, All Man and All Woman
As they do a mock wedding mocking the tag champs
All Man: Romeo? I said no entertainment! I said no entertainment
Romeo orders the lights turn on
All Man walks outside to the puppet show going on and says “I know it’s you Gacy”!
“I know it’s Audrey Carbine probably in the cake , right? Classic”
All Man grabs one of the puppets and pulls the sock off to reveal a white hand, yep it’s Gacy, and jumping out of the puppet stand The Marauder Simon Gotch pops out and attacks All Man and shoved him into the guardrail, Romeo tried to jump over the top rope, Gotch catches him with a fist then throws him into the same barricade and this time spears Romeo and All Man thru it
Mandy Leon even jumps from out the puppet stand and she runs in and has a brawl with All Woman, ultimately dunking her face into the giant cake
The Wedding of All Man & All Woman With the reverend Romeo Roselli is a disaster
Mandy shoves All Woman in the cake and they run up the ramp yelling they want a tag title shot
Show ends