'Excuse me, where have I seen you?', they tend to ask me
A humble answer I give them as we
Start to get closer, but then even more so
They all persist on rubbing my torso
I'm Latin, but I ain't wrapping in satin
No, that old disco look just ain't happening
I'm fresh and new and making my debut
So let me run this information by you
It's true we outdo, it has become an issue
Love 'em and leave 'em fast, we won't miss you
Its tradition, we're well conditioned
We outlast the competition, so listen
We don't care too much about kissing, no
We know just what you've been missing, ho
We're straight out and blunt, we don't put up with stunts
Baby, you know what we want...
We want the funk
Give up the funk
We need the funk
Gotta have that funk
Don't play shy, don't expect long good-byes
These are some of the rules that we go by
No demands and forget holding hands
Please, not around our friends
We intend to hold on to our image
Don't try to cross the line of scrimmage
Don't say you weren't aware, so have yourself prepared
And beware, this is a one-time love affair
See, 'that's as far as it goes' is our motto
And you thought you won the lotto
Waiting to claim your prize, you go unrecognized
Huh! How's that for a surprise?
So save yourself from confusion and sorrow
Don't even think about tomorrow
Tonight's the night, enjoy! We're here to make some noise
Let me hear the high pitch in your voice
We want the funk
Give up the funk
We need the funk
Gotta have that funk
Smoother than James Bond, you wake and we're gone
So you wonder what you did wrong, huh?
Don't be blaming yourself, it's a must that we vanish
Here's the scoop straight to you, but in Spanish...
Oye nena, rubia o morena
Mi excusa est en mis venas
Soy un simple mujeriego no lo niego ni miento
Soy latino cien por ciento
As que piensa lo bien si no es conmigo con quien es?
Responde de una vez
No te me hagas la importante la dificil o atorrante
Al cabo tengo mas amantes
No te prometo nada saldrs por donde entrastes
Yo no pienso molestarte
As que no me busques
Me sigas, me asustes
Busca otro que te la ajuste
Now there it is laid out plain and simple
In Spanish, but on tempo
Can't comprehend at all? Confused or in a hole? Yo!
What's the matter? No habla espanol?
If that's the case then no need to worry
Bust out the dictionary
You want some inside info? Wanna know what you're in for?
Look up right under 'nympho'
We want the funk
Give up the funk
We need the funk
Gotta have that funk