Ladies and Gentlemen
You are now listening to the sounds
Of The Notorious B.I.G. and the Junior M.A.F.I.A
Jealous niggas recognize, freak bitches fantasize
Uhh, ahhh..
Uh, one two y'all, you know I rocked 'cha
Step in the realms of Junior M.A.F.I.A
One two y'all, you know I rocked 'cha
Step in the realms of Junior M.A.F.I.A
One two y'all, you know I rocked 'cha
Step in the realms of Junior M.A.F.I.A
One two y'all, uhh
Uhh, uhh, yo 
Easy livin', bitches givin' pussy like it's free
My GS3 gleams perfectly
Lil' Cease get raw like the stems
Land's and Lexus' flexed with the M-A-F-I-A
Blunts make my day
Friday to Friday stay bent baby
Plus stylish, sippin' on Bailey's Irish
My wish - filthy rich by sixteen
Swimmin' in cream, fuck a dollar and a dream
Song knockin' on ho's answerin' machine, uhh
True baller, bitch page might call her
A little shorty but I like my bitches taller
Nastiest, the flashiest
You got blunts pass them shits
While B.I.G. fuck your bitch, uhh, uhh
While your nigga take flicks
Uhh, yeah, Junior M.A.F.I.A. clique
One two y'all, you know I rock ya
Step in the realms of Junior M.A.F.I.A
One two y'all, you know I rock ya
Step in the realms of Junior M.A.F.I.A
One two y'all, you know I rock ya
Step in the realms of Junior M.A.F.I.A
One two y'all, uhh.. uhh.. uhh
I admit, back in the days I did stupid shit
Now I changed, I'm into bigger and better things
Like rockin' Cuban chains, bitch copped the Range
Del Vec was set with the Lex and diamond rings
Pop Moët with my bitch when it rain
Drink away the pain, got mad stress on my brain
A little nigga roll for dough
Copped keys across seas, in San Domingo
From a Cuban kid named Sallio, sell mad perico
Coppin' bout four bricks, then I called Nino
Meet me at the airport, feds is on the stalk
I almost got caught cause the dumb bitch talked
How much you make and what we do and where we live at
How much my V cost and where my cash stash at
But the feds still couldn't get nuttin'
J.M. still stuntin' and frontin'
One two y'all, you know we rock ya
Lil' Jamal and Junior M.A.F.I.A
One two y'all, you know we rock ya
Lil' Jamal and Junior M.A.F.I.A
One two y'all, you know we rock ya
Lil' Jamal and Junior M.A.F.I.A
One two y'all, you know we rock ya, rock ya
Lil' Jamal and Junior M.A.F.I.A
Mally G, the villain, keep niggas feelin'
My trigger finger enhancin' peelin'
Your dome piece with the chrome piece fat
I don't fuck around black, catch a Mac to ya back
Lethal weapon with the eighteen leather
Schemin', bustin' on whoever out the Jetta
Window, think slow sink low
Fuckin' with raw dog 'Mal you ain't know, ahh
Remember this - funk abyss lyricist
Blow the premises out the frame wit this
Killer seen with the guillotine shotty
With Junior M.A.F.I.A. rockin' ya whole fuckin' spot
Cockin' the Glock, fifty, bust, hit the dust
To spit shit murderous, heh
Now do you think that you can fade Jamal, I fade dem all
And if I have to kill 'em all, I shall
One two y'all, you know I rocked ya
Step in the realms of Junior M.A.F.I.A
One two y'all, you know I rocked ya
Step in the realms of Junior M.A.F.I.A
One two y'all, you know I rocked ya
Step in the realms of Junior M.A.F.I.A
One two y'all, uhh.. uhh.. uhh
I got that venom rhyme like Sprite got lemon lime
Donna Karen dime, keep her hair done all the time
My rhymes, somewhat Shakespearean, blood I'm smearin' in
Tongue-kissin' my lawyer, at my hearin' and
In this day and age, my rap is like the plague
I married this shit, y'all niggas still engaged
Turn blowouts to 360 waves
How does 12 gauge feel sittin' on ya tongue, on ya lips 'n'
Dippin' with money L in the green Beamer
Sippin' Zima's, on our way to see Katrina
She said she need a Freak Like Me, like Adina
Fucked her by mistake she had a twin named Regina
I seen her, lights excite all the freaks
Squirtin' on curtains, lips, tits and sheets
Compete, meet death, ya dead, ya die..
Don't fuck with B-I, that's that!