As days go by in a rush
You've forgotten why you exist
And you are unaware of the problems
You've caused
You want to laugh
You want to have fun
Life is tough as is
That's why
You want music to entertain you
To whisk you away from reality
But we believe that music can bring about change
Come with us
Shall we begin?
At the time of Genghis Khan the price of washin' your hands in a river was death
We migrated and decayed spewing trash we've ended up fuckin' up our three seas
The unpredictable ruffian he breathes exhaust gas and he's now having a barbecue!
Forests on fire
Mother Nature weeping blood
Arrogance at an all time high!
Factory chimneys belch smoke
Nuclear reactors, hazardous waste
"Electro smoke" is always on the go
The biggest parasite is man just look at the planet!
Man isn't even as capable as animals
He changed things up, then couldn't adapt
The bill is for the next generation to pay
Doomsday's upon us, watch like an imbecile!
Don't do it!
Don't toss cigarette butts in the sea
You can't take it back
There'll come a day when that trash-filled sea
Will be missed, but it won't be there!
Not long before we go barren like Africa
Children growing up without water
Because we destroyed our lakes, rivers, streams, everything!
No mercy?
I can't believe it
We've taken it all for granted
Animals have their stomachs filled with plastic
Doesn't it break your heart?
Retweeting isn't enough
Something must be done
Do not pollute the water!
Let my land be serene like water
Don't inject no poison into its veins!
Come
There will come a day
When these guilty words will be imprisoned
Defeated I'll disappear they won't notice
I won't stay silent
I can't stay silent
Don't be afraid come
There will come a day
When these guilty words will be imprisoned
Defeated I'll disappear they won't notic
I won't stay silent
I can't stay silent
I am a "White Turk"
My laws are Anglo-Saxon but my mind is Middle-Eastern
I grew up apolitical
I never voted
I've cared about holidays, traveling and debts
Justice is dead
I stayed silent and participated until it was me
Now I'm too scared to send a tweet
I've come to fear my own country's police
Sorry to say, but this hopeless generation is your creation
The unhappy faction is your creation and this gunfire!
Innocent men rotting in jail without even knowing why
It's all you!
This horrifying picture is your creation this tired voice of mine
Idiot MPs, corrupt leeches, building their wealth on the back of the poor, using their taxes
It's all you!
You've never encountered death, never once lost your breath
A coffee expert, always a cup in your hand
All you care about is your wannabe "Startup"
Now, the justice that was supposed to protect you will come knocking, will break down your door!
You've acquitted child-killers just because they are cops you didn't say a word, which means you're guilty!
Because you mourned for two days, and moved on
You forgot the name of the judge
Who released Tugce and Busra's killers!
If something happens to you, will you rely on the law?
If they falsely arrest you one night, no single journalist can report it because they're all locked up!
The lives taken by released killers 
Wasted years in prison on a false charge 
You stayed silent
You were overpowered because you were quiet
They took away your rights and they won't give them back voluntarily!
Justice is supposedly the pillar of a country
It's turned a deaf ear, won't listen to you
Traditions, morals, customs
If the one before was bad, tell me, is the incumbent any better?
Is this civilized?
We can't even afford what your dog won't eat
Your police can't pull out his gun and shoot whoever he wants in broad daylight!
Media, press, law, military they all work for you
Young boys are out there at the crack of dawn putting their lives on the line
Hate is your weapon!
These aren't even our sins to pay for
Your plan is all nice!
I don't know who buys this
But I do know this
Our weapon are our words!
I'm the voice of the lost generation
I can't be censored in a flawed picture
To get my team out of this grave I always slept with one eye open
Sticks, knives, they're all ineffective!
A sharp mind is my prime objective
As patience devoured my brain the ones who rained down on me, I set aflame!
All I did was make music!
The police took offense and took me in
I'm at another hearing while you go to your gig
Wearing the same old suit for the past ten years
The day someone tells me all is not for nothing will be the day I'll give my heart and my soul
The judiciary comes and collects its dues
In hell I'm living, my body is burning
Hello Turkey 
I have an ID 
We're trying to get by without getting in harm's way
The charlatan on TV, always a fanatic devotee!
Maliciousness is an epidemic, continues to manipulate!
This is all a charade!
We're flying into turbulence!
Syria was our neighbor, now are they our citizens? 
Even the dead aren't at peace, we're cursed by them
"Hurriyet" was just a newspaper
You go be as free as you can be!
Swallows us whole in a single bite
All-devouring Istanbul!
Chipping away at the best of times
It's an elusive mystery!
Its streets are paved with gold
You gave your hand, it grabbed your arm 
Transport, education, judiciary 
The devil's spread his poison!
Money is a must or having contacts is a must
The big guys having your number is a must
Having an insider in Aksaray is a must
We never owned a yacht, a flat or a mansion
Our piggy banks were never full
I wasn't born rich
You must have a purpose in the big city
You didn't produce anything, yet you burned down forests!
You've become an animal in the concrete jungle
You've got dark circles under your eyes again
Dinosaurs are in power
There's a role for everyone in this jungle
"Stay silent and you will be next"
"Bright minds are facing a dark future next!"
I will graduate!
I'll give you cash, you give me a diploma
No money, I must work up a sweat
Equal opportunity in education is what I exploit as a college student
I graduated
I'm a drifter because of the system you created
I graduated
I'll be a cashier or I'll be your usher at the movies!
Universities everywhere but village schools are in dire need
Whatever ideology the higher-ups have is what is taught in class
Rich, poor separated favored according to their money or backing
Education is an industry the same as making illegal profit from construction!
One doesn't have money for books
A budding teacher who doesn't know "the right people"
You know an MP? Wow!
You'll never get me if that's how you roll!
At least help out a village school
Chaos everywhere
You should fight too!
The kid barely slept tonight
He will go to school build him a road!
Why this sky?
These stars, these galaxies, the planets...
Why?
What makes this universe?
What makes the Earth?
Why me? Why you? Why us? Ask!
First of all, ask "Why do I exist?
"Where did I come from and why am I human?
How did I? How did we? How does everything?
How did we add meaning? How do we learn?
What does life favor? Who gets the grace?
"Who gets to eat?"
To understand, to explain and comprehend?
Is it forbidden to understand?
Could be, but there isn't one answer!
There are many, go seek them out!
Chase it, make sure to look for proof!
Feed your soul, keep looking for fuel!
Protect your heart and find a witness
Take a breath and pursue art!
Ask, ask about the atoms
Think of the speed of light and go get yourself wings
And then... Fly!
Fly as high as you can!
Fly as high as you can fly!
Let yourself go!
I wouldn't know
I've never had to defend myself
I wouldn't know, I've never had to worry about a child
I've never been forced to marry
There was no abuse in my home
In my own home I've never been imprisoned in my room
I've never been indoctrinated
I've never been displaced
I've never been burned with hatred
I was never burned to death
I never had siblings
I've never been afraid of my older brother
I've never been pulled out of school
I've never been murdered!
You never lay your hands on a woman, you idiot!
You're a sorry excuse for a human being!
She deserves the best
Say "No to violence against women!"
Why are the males at the top of the pyramid?
In traffic, at home or in public transportation?
The harassments never end
A slap on the wrist doesn't cut it
Uh, ah, are these moneybags your idea of a "Man"?
Slapped her five times in Beşiktaş, nasty
Pockets full of money, heart worthless
Where's your head at? Are you even human?
Secondhand embarrassment! Are you even human?
Are you even human?
How do you even get to this point? How?
Let this world spin like my head is spinning
As I lose my mind
A dream
My breath, my inner voice
I fall into the deep
Let this world spin like my head is spinning
As I lose my mind
A dream
My breath, my inner voice
I fall into the deep
They banged my head against a wall
They put out cigarettes on my skin instead of protecting me
They made me get up
The smell of burnt skin and smoke
Bastinado, "motherfucker"
Is that the due process here?
According to which rule?
I'm ready for battle, there will be chaos
This is what is taught, loving violence and fanning the flames
Germany is as cold as ice, let me tell you
Most of the youth are on Amphetamines Tilidine" or "Weed", "Cocaine" or "Speed", "Crack"
You might like it but it's not my cup of tea
Not my cup of tea!
Walk as you please! Step on a mine and die
And for what cost?
How much is it?
Stop rolling around like a wheel
Just be my friend
If you're talking, be honest!
A bowl of water, is that too much to ask?
Have a conscience, damn it!
You don't want to understand but their lives are entrusted to you and me
Think for once!
"You're living alone, outside, in the cold, in winter
Nobody speaks your language
Danger everywhere
Always disaster, always calamity!"
They can't win, they are the wounded
Whatever they do, it's never enough for you
It's about compassion, not money!
Abandoning them in the woods is not the answer!
They're not wolves, they can't survive on their own there
Protect them
They can't fight for their own rights
The shelters are full
The territory is harsh
Its sky is dark
The punishment is money for raping and torturing stray animals
"Major immorality requires major imbeciles"
Not all humans are guilty but all animals are innocent!
Come
There will come a day
When these guilty words will be imprisoned
Defeated I'll disappear they won't notic
I won't stay silent
I can't stay silent
Don't be afraid come
There will come a day
When these guilty words will be imprisoned
Defeated I'll disappear they won't notic
I won't stay silent
I can't stay silent
Don't go! 
There's still a lot we can change in this life
Don't be stubborn!
We all gave up at some point in time
Now clench your fist
Put an end to your silence
Remember how strong you stood when you blew a fuse!
Hate inside, hate outside
Come!
Love life the most
I can't create a world for you but I will definitely hold your hand
Don't leave the world even if everyone leaves you
I'm not judging you
I will never fully understand your pain
I know
If it's too heavy, I leave it behind I walk down my own path
Please look at the mirror say "I love you"
Ey! What is fascism?
To put it roughly, we will be deceived
All of us, together
All you know is "you"
Many accidents caused by overambition
This ambition is an everlasting emotion
Snap at your wife at home
Crisis on the street
Shh!
Kick a dog, not the purebred, but the mutt, brainless!
Ey! A thief who steals from himself
Fear the police, ey!
The "System" wants you to be a nobody, a raw, and shallow, individual
Know what is what and know us
We're the generation that looks dirty but has clean hands
You are the seat of the bike while we are the wheels and the handlebars
Ey! Naturally, we want a generation like ours
Ey! This is our main goal, respect is all
Grandchild, be a mirror!
Anxiety galore but this is our road
Drown or be born
So many wrongs, as many rights
So be it, grandchild
Respect is all!
I can't look you in the eyes, my face falls
Barefoot but dreams in their eyes
Timid but he still puts in the work
He's spent
Look! Every day is an exile!
He can't escape, bullies chase him
They look for a helping hand
Burn the big shot's money and go knock that fuckin' ego out
Don't name streets after ministers, but after the poor and the orphans
Don't interfere with the street vendors, send the officers to the skyscrapers
I'm a branch broken off by the storm
Been around a lot and fraying
So much goes on inside me
There are no words if I tried to explain
Sometimes I'm the story of a homeless child
I'm a branch broken off by the storm
Been around a lot and fraying
So much goes on inside me
There are no words if I tried to explain
Sometimes I'm the story of a homeless child
A death trap
Highways are death traps
365 days at risk
Countless ruffians with no conscience
Pay hush money
A car accident overshadow the holidays
Broken hearts, so much pain
A requiem rings in their ears, the wound never heals
Alcohol, violence, and speed cause terror
Kids driving expensive sports cars have no fear
Safety first, leniency next
Patience, peace, man needs these
The smallest of mistakes can ruin everything
Believe me, there's no return!