The Mabbot street entrance of nighttown, before which stretches an uncobbled transiding set with skeleton tracks, red and green will-o'-the-wisps and danger signals. Rows of flimsy houses with gaping doors. Rare lamps with faint rainbow fans. Round Rabaiotti's halted ice gondola stunted men and women squabble. They grab wafers between which are wedged lumps of coal and copper snow. Sucking, they scatter slowly. Children. The swancomb of the gondola, highreared, forges on through the murk, white and blue under a lighthouse. Whistles call and answer.
THE CALLS Wait, my love, and I'll be with you.
THE ANSWERS Round behind the stable.
THE CHILDREN Kithoguel Salute.
THE IDIOT  Grhahute!
THE CHILDREN Where's the great light?
THE IDIOT  Ghaghahest.
CISSY CAFFREY
I gave it to Molly
Because she was jolly,
The leg of the duck
The leg of the duck.
THE VIRAGO Signs on you, hairy arse. More power the Cavan girl.
CISSY CAFFREY More luck to me. Cavan, Cootehill and Belturbet.
I gave it to Nelly
To stick in her belly
The leg of the duck
The leg of the duck.
PRIVATE COMPTON  Way for the parson.
PRIVATE CARR  What ho, parson!
CISSY CAFFREY 
She has it, she got it,
Wherever she put it
The leg of the duck.
STEPHEN Vidi aquam egredientem de templo a latere dextro. Alleluia.
THE BAWD  Sst! Come here till I tell you. Maidenhead inside. Sst.
STEPHEN  Et omnes ad quos pervenit acqua ista.
THE BAWD  Trinity medicals. Fallopian tube. All prick and no pence.
EDY BOARDMAN  And say the one: I seen you up Faithful place with your squarepusher, the greaser off the railway, in his cometobed hat. Did you, says I. That's not for you to say, says I. You never seen me in the mantrap with a married highlander, says I. The likes of her! Stag that one is. Stubborn as a mule! And her walking with two fellows the one time, Kildbride the enginedriver and lancecorporal Oliphant.
STEPHEN  Salvi facti i sunt.
LYNCH So that?
STEPHEN  So that gesture, not music, not odours, would be a universal language, the gift of tongues rendering visible not the lay sense but the first entelechy, the structural rhythm.
LYNCH Pornosophical philotheology. Metaphysics in Mecklenburg street!
STEPHEN We have shrewridden Shakespeare and henpecked Socrates. Even the allwisest stagyrite was bitted, bridled and mounted by a light of love.
LYNCH Ba!
STEPHEN Anyway, who wants two gestures to illustrate a loaf and a jug? This movement illustrates the loaf and jug of bread and wine in Omar. Hold my stick.
LYNCH Damn your yellow stick. Where are we going?
STEPHEN Lecherous lynx, to la belle dame sans merci, Georgina Johnson, ad deam qui laetificat juventutem meam.
LYNCH Which is the jug of bread? It skills not. That or the customhouse. Illustrate thou. Here take your crutch and walk.
(They pass. Tommy Caffrey scrambles to a gaslamp and, clasping, climbs in spasms. From the top spur he slides down. Jacky Caffrey clasps to climb. The navvy lurches against the lamp. The twins scuttle off in the dark. The navvy, swaying, presses a forefinger against a wing of his nose and ejects from the farther nostril a long liquid jet of snot. Shouldering the lamp he staggers away through the crowd with his flaring cresset.
Snakes of river fog creep slowly. From drains, clefts, cesspools, middens arise on all sides stagnant fumes. A glow leaps in the south beyond the seaward reaches of the river. The navvy staggering forward cleaves the crowd and lurches towards the tramsiding. On the farther side under the railway bridge Bloom appears flushed, panting, cramming bread and chocolate into a side pocket. From Gillens hairdressers window a composite portrait shows him gallant Nelson's image. A concave mirror at the side presents to him lovelorn longlost lugubru Booloohoom. Grave Gladstone sees him level Bloom for Bloom. He passes, struck by the stare of truculent Wellington but in the con vex mirror grin unstruck the bonham eyes and fatchuck cheekchops of Jollypoldy the rixdix doldy.
At Antonio Babaiotti's door Bloom halts, sweated under the bright arclamps. He disappears. In a moment he reappears and hurries on.)
BLOOM Fish and taters. N. g. Ah!
BLOOM Stitch in my side. Why did I run?
BLOOM What is that? A flasher? Searchlight.
BLOOM Aurora borealis or a steel foundry? Ah, the brigade, of course. South side anyhow. Big blaze. Might be his house. Beggar's bush. We're safe.  London's burning, London's burning! On fire, on fire!  I'll miss him. Run. Quick. Better cross here.
THE URCHINS Mind out, mister! 
THE BELLS Haltyaltyaltyall.
BLOOM  Ow.
THE GONG Bang Bang Bla Bak Blud Bugg Bloo.
THE MOTORMAN Hey, shitbreeches, are you doing the hattrick?
BLOOM  No thoroughfare. Close shave that but cured the stitch. Must take up Sandow's exercises again. On the hands down. Insure against street accident too. The Providential.  Poor mamma's panacea. Heel easily catch in tracks or bootlace in a cog. Day the wheel of the black Maria peeled off my shoe at Leonard's corner. Third time is the charm. Shoe trick. Insolent driver. I ought to report him. Tension makes them nervous. Might be the fellow balked me this morning with that horsey woman. Same style of beauty. Quick of him all the same. The stiff walk. True word spoken in jest. That awful cramp in Lad lane. Something poisonous I ate. Emblem of luck. Why? Probably lost cattle. Mark of the beast.  Bit light in the head. Monthly or effect of the other. Brainfogfag. That tired feeling. Too much for me now. Ow!
BLOOM Buenos noches, señorita Blanca, que calle es esta?
THE FIGURE  Password. Sraid Mabbot.
BLOOM Haha. Merci. Esperanto. Slan leath.  Gaelic league spy, sent by that fireeater.
BLOOM I beg. 
BLOOM Keep to the right, right, right. If there is a fingerpost planted by the Touring Club at Stepaside who procured that public boon? I who lost my way and contributed to the columns of the Irish Cyclist the letter headed, In darkest Stepaside. Keep, keep, keep to the right. Rags and bones, at midnight. A fence more likely. First place murderer makes for. Wash off his sins of the world.
BLOOM O!
BLOOM Beware of pickpockets. Old thieves' dodge. Collide. Then snatch your purse.
RUDOLPH Second halfcrown waste money today. I told you not go with drunken goy ever. So. You catch no money.
BLOOM  Ja, ich weiss, papachi.
RUDOLPH What you making down this place? Have you no soul?  Are you not my son Leopold, the grandson of Leopold? Are you not my dear son Leopold who left the house of his father and left the god of his fathers Abraham and Jacob?
BLOOM  I suppose so, father. Mosenthal. All that's left of him.
RUDOLPH  One night they bring you home drunk as dog after spend your good money. What you call them running chaps?
BLOOM  Harriers, father. Only that once.
RUDOLPH Once! Mud head to foot. Cut your hand open. Lockjaw. They make you kaput, Leopoldleben. You watch them chaps.
BLOOM  They challenged me to a sprint. It was muddy. I slipped.
RUDOLPH  Ooim nachez. Nice spectacles for your poor mother!
BLOOM Mamma!
ELLEN BLOOM  O blessed Redeemer, what have they done to him! My smelling salts!  Sacred Heart of Mary, where were you at all, at all?
A VOICE  Poldy!
BLOOM Who?  At your service.
BLOOM Molly!
MARION Welly? Mrs Marion from this out, my dear man, when you speak to me.  Has poor little hubby cold feet waiting so long?
BLOOM  No, no. Not the least little bit.
MARION Nebrakada! Feminimum.
BLOOM I can give you... I mean as your business menagerer Mrs Marion... if you...
MARION So you notice some change?  O Poldy, Poldy, you are a poor old stick in the mud! Go and see life. See the wide world.
BLOOM I was just going back for that lotion whitewax, orangeflower water. Shop closes early on Thursday. But the first thing in the morning.  This moving kidney. Ah!
THE SOAP
We're a capital couple are Bloom and I;
He brightens the earth, I polish the sky.
SWENY Three and a penny, please.
BLOOM Yes. For my wife, Mrs Marion. Special recipe.
MARION  Poldy!
BLOOM Yes, ma'am?
MARION Ti trema un poco il cuore?
BLOOM Are you sure about that Voglio? I mean the pronunciati...
THE BAWD Ten shillings a maidenhead. Fresh thing was never touched. Fifteen. There's no-one in it only her old father that's dead drunk.
BRIDIE Hatch street. Any good in your mind?
THE BAWD  He's getting his pleasure. You won't get a virgin in the flash houses. Ten shillings. Don't be all night before the polis in plain clothes sees us. Sixtyseven is a bitch.
GERTY With all my worldly goods I thee and thou.  You did that. I hate you.
BLOOM I? When? You're dreaming. I never saw you.
THE BAWD Leave the gentleman alone, you cheat. Writing the gentleman false letters. Streetwalking and soliciting. Better for your mother take the strap to you at the bedpost, hussy like you.
GERTY  When you saw all the secrets of my bottom drawer.  Dirty married man! I love you for doing that to me.
MRS BREEN Mr.
BLOOM  Madam, when we last had this pleasure by letter dated the sixteenth instant .
MRS BREEN Mr Bloom! You down here in the haunts of sin! I caught you nicely! Scamp!
BLOOM  Not so loud my name. Whatever do you think me? Don't give me away. Walls have hears. How do you do? It's ages since I. You're looking splendid. Absolutely it. Seasonable weather we are having this time of year. Black refracts heat. Short cut home here. Interesting quarter. Rescue of fallen women Magdalen asylum. I am the secretary...
MRS BREEN  Now don't tell a big fib! I know somebody won't like that. O just wait till I see Molly!  Account for yourself this very minute or woe betide you!
BLOOM  She often said she'd like to visit. Slumming. The exotic, you see. Negro servants too in livery if she had money. Othello black brute. Eugene Stratton. Even the bones and cornerman at the Livermore christies. Bohee brothers. Sweep for that matter.
There's someone in the house with Dina
There's someone in the house, I know,
There's someone in the house with Dina
Playing on the old banjo.
BLOOM  A little frivol, shall we, if you are so inclined? Would you like me perhaps to embrace you just for a fraction of a second?
MRS BREEN  O, you ruck! You ought to see yourself!
BLOOM For old sake'sake. I only meant a square party, a mixed marriage mingling of our different little conjugials. You know I had a soft corner for you.  'Twas I sent you that valentine of the dear gazelle.
MRS BREEN Glory Alice, you do look a holy show! Killing simply.  What are you hiding behind your back? Tell us, there's a dear.
BLOOM  Josie Powell that was, prettiest deb in Dublin. How time flies by! Do you remember, harking back in a retrospective arrangement, Old Christmas night Georgina Simpson's housewarming while they were playing the Irving Bishop game, finding the pin blindfold and thoughtreading? Subject, what is in this snuff box?
MRS BREEN You were the lion of the night with your seriocomic recitation and you looked the part. You were always a favourite with the ladies.
BLOOM  Ladies and gentlemen, I give you Ireland, home and beauty.
MRS BREEN The dear dead days beyond recall. Love's old sweet song.
BLOOM  I confess I'm teapot with curiosity to find out whether some person's something is a little teapot at present.
MRS BREEN  Tremendously teapot! London's tea pot and I'm simply teapot all over me.  After the parlour mystery games and the crackers from the tree we sat on the staircase ottoman. Under the mistletoe. Two is company.
BLOOM  The witching hour of night. I took the splinter out of this hand, carefully, slowly.  Là ci darem la mano.
MRS BREEN  Voglio e non. You're hot! You're scalding! The left hand nearest the heart.
BLOOM When you made your present choice they said it was beauty and the beast. I can never forgive you for that.  Think what it means. All you meant to me then.  Woman, it's breaking me! 
ALF BERGAN  U.p.: Up.
MRS BREEN  High jinks below stairs.  Why didn't you kiss the spot to make it well? You wanted to.
BLOOM  Molly's best friend! Could you?
MRS BREEN  Hnhn. The answer is a lemon. Have you a little present for me there?
BLOOM  Kosher. A snack for supper. The home without potted meat is incomplete. I was at Leah. Mrs Bandman Palmer. Trenchant exponent of Shakespeare. Unfortunately threw away the programme. Rattling good place round there for pig's feet. Feel.
RICHIE Best value in Dub.
PAT  Steak and kidney. Bottle of lager. Hee hee hee. Wait till I wait.
RICHIE Goodgod. Inev erate inall...
RICHIE  Ah! Bright's! Lights!
BLOOM  A spy. Don't attract attention. I hate stupid crowds. I am not on pleasure bent. I am in a grave predicament.
MRS BREEN Humbugging and delutbering as per usual with your cock and bull story.
BLOOM I want to tell you a little secret about how I came to be here. But you must never tell. Not even Molly. I have a most particular reason.
MRS BREEN  O, not for worlds.
BLOOM Let's walk on. Shall us?
MRS BREEN Let's.
THE BAWD Jewman's melt!
BLOOM  Do you remember a long long time, years and years ago, just after Milly, Marionette we called her, was weaned when we all went together to Fairyhouse races, was it?
MRS BREEN  Leopardstown.
BLOOM I mean, Leopardstown. And Molly won seven shillings on a three year old named Nevertell and coming home along by Foxrock in that old fiveseater shanderadan of a waggonette you were in your heyday then and you had on that new hat of white velours with a surround of molefur that Mrs Hayes advised you to buy because it was marked down to nineteen and eleven, a bit of wire and an old rag of velveteen, and I'll lay you what you like she did it on purpose...
MRS BREEN She did, of course, the cat! Don't tell me! Nice adviser!
BLOOM Because it didn't suit you one quarter as well as the other ducky little tammy toque with the bird of paradise wing in it that I admired on you and you honestly looked just too fetching in it though it was a pity to kill it, you cruel creature, little mite of a thing with a heart the size of a fullstop.
MRS BREEN  Naughty cruel I was.
BLOOM  And Molly was eating a sandwich of spiced beef out of Mrs Joe Gallaher's lunch basket. Frankly, though she had her advisers or admirers, I never cared much for her style. She was .
MRS BREEN Too.
BLOOM Yes. And Molly was laughing because Rogers and Maggot O'Reilly were mimicking a cock as we passed a farmhouse and Marcus Tertius Moses, the tea merchant, drove past us in a gig with his daughter, Dancer Moses was her name, and the poodle in her lap bridled up and you asked me if I ever heard or read or knew or came across .
MRS BREEN  Yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes.
THE GAFFER  And when Cairns came down from the scaffolding in Beaver Street what was he after doing it into only into the bucket of porter that was there waiting on the shavings for Derwan's plasterers.
THE LOITERERS  O jays!
BLOOM Coincidence too. They think it funny. Anything but that. Broad daylight. Trying to walk. Lucky no woman.
THE LOITERERS Jays, that's a good one. Glauber salts. O jays, into the men's porter.
THE WHORES Are you going far, queer fellow? How's your middle leg? Got a match on you? Eh, come here till I stiffen it for you.
THE NAVVY  Where's the bloody house?
THE SHEBEENKEEPER Purdon street. Shilling a bottle of stout. Respectable woman.
THE NAVVY  Come on, you British army!
PRIVATE CARR  He aint half balmy.
PRIVATE COMPTON  What ho!
PRIVATE CARR  Portobello barracks canteen. You ask for Carr. Just Carr.
THE NAVVY 
We are the boys. Of Wexford.
PRIVATE COMPTON Say! What price the sergeantmajor?
PRIVATE CARR Bennett? He's my pal. I love old Bennett.
THENAVVY 
The galling chain.
And free our native land.
BLOOM Wildgoose chase this. Disorderly houses. Lord knows where they are gone. Drunks cover distance double quick. Nice mixup. Scene at Westland row. Then jump in first class with third ticket. Then too far. Train with engine behind. Might have taken me to Malahide or a siding for the night or collision. Second drink does it. Once is a dose. What am I following him for? Still, he's the best of that lot. If I hadn't heard about Mrs Beaufoy Purefoy I wouldn't have gone and wouldn't have met. Kismet. He'll lose that cash. Relieving office here. Good biz for cheapjacks, organs. What do ye lack? Soon got, soon gone. Might have lost my life too with that mangongwheeltracktrolleyglarejuggernaut only for presence of mind. Can't always save you, though. If I had passed Truelock's window that day two minutes later would have been shot. Absence of body. Still if bullet only went through my coat get damages for shock, five hundred pounds. What was he? Kildare street club toff. God help his gamekeeper.
Odd! Molly drawing on the frosted carriagepane at Kingstown. What's that like? 
THE WREATHS Sweet are the sweets. Sweets of sin.
BLOOM My spine's a bit limp. Go or turn? And this food? Eat it and get all pigsticky. Absurd I am. Waste of money. One and eightpence too much.  Strange how they take to me. Even that brute today. Better speak to him first. Like women they like rencontres. Stinks like a polecat. Chacun son goût. He might be mad. Fido. Uncertain in his movements. Good fellow! Garryowen!  Influence of his surroundings. Give and have done with it. Provided nobody.  Sizeable for threepence. But then I have it in my left hand. Calls for more effort. Why? Smaller from want of use. O, let it slide. Two and six.
THE WATCH Bloom. Of Bloom. For Bloom. Bloom.
FIRST WATCH Caught in the act. Commit no nuisance.
BLOOM  I am doing good to others.
THE GULLS Kaw kave kankury kake.
BLOOM The friend of man. Trained by kindness.
BOB DORAN Towser. Give us the paw. Give the paw.
SECOND WATCH Prevention of cruelty to animals.
BLOOM  A noble work! I scolded that tramdriver on Harold's cross bridge for illusing the poor horse with his harness scab. Bad French I got for my pains. Of course it was frosty and the last tram. All tales of circus life are highly demoralising.
SIGNOR MAFFEI  Ladies and gentlemen, my educated greyhound. It was I broke in the bucking broncho Ajax with my patent spiked saddle for carnivores. Lash under the belly with a knotted thong. Block tackle and a strangling pully will bring your lion to heel, no matter how fractious, even Leo ferox there, the Libyan maneater. A redhot crowbar and some liniment rubbing on the burning part produced Fritz of Amsterdam, the thinking hyena.  I possess the Indian sign. The glint of my eye does it with these breastsparklers.  I now introduce Mademoiselle Ruby, the pride of the ring.
FIRST WATCH Come. Name and address.
BLOOM I have forgotten for the moment. Ah, yes!  Dr Bloom, Leopold, dental surgeon. You have heard of von Bloom Pasha. Umpteen mil lions. Donnerwetter! Owns half Austria. Egypt. Cousin.
FIRST WATCH Proof.
BLOOM  Allow me. My club is the Junior Army and Navy. Solicitors: Messrs John Henry Menton, 27 Bachelor's Walk.
FIRST WATCH  Henry Flower. No fixed abode. Un lawfully watching and besetting.
SECOND WATCH An alibi. You are cautioned.
BLOOM  This is the flower in question. It was given me by a man I don't know his name.  You know that old joke, rose of Castille. Bloom. The change of name Virag.  We are engaged you see, sergeant. Lady in the case. Love entanglement.  Dash it all. It's a way we gallants have in the navy. Uniform that does it.  Still, of course, you do get your Waterloo sometimes. Drop in some evening and have a glass of old Burgundy.  I'll introduce you, inspector. She's game. Do it in shake of a lamb's tail.
THE DARK MERCURY The Castle is looking for him. He was drummed out of the army.
MARTHA  Henry! Leopold! Leopold! Lionel, thou lost one! Clear my name.
FIRST WATCH  Come to the station.
BLOOM  No, no, worshipful master, light of love. Mistaken identity. The Lyons mail. Lesurques and Dubosc. You remember the Childs fratricide case. We medical men. By striking him dead with a hatchet. I am wrongfully accused. Better one guilty escape than ninetynine wrongfully condemned.
MARTHA  Breach of promise. My real name is Peggy Griffin. He wrote to me that he was miserable. I'll tell my brother, the Bective rugger fullback, on you, heartless flirt.
BLOOM  She's drunk. The woman is inebriated.  Shitbroleeth.
SECOND WATCH  You ought to be thoroughly well ashamed of yourself.
BLOOM Gentleman of the jury, let me explain. A pure mare's nest. I am a man misunderstood. I am being made a scapegoat of. I am a respectable married man, without a stain on my character. I live in Eccles street. My wife, I am the daughter of a most distinguished commander, a gallant upstanding gentleman, who do you call him, Majorgeneral Brian Tweedy, one of Britain's fighting men who helped to win our battles. Got his majority for the heroic defence of Rorke's Drift.
FIRST WATCH Regiment.
BLOOM  The royal Dublins, boys, the salt of the earth, known the world over. I think I see some old comrades in arms up there among you. The R. D. F. With our own Metropolitan police, guardians of our homes, the pluckiest lads and the finest body of men, as physique, in the service of our sovereign.
A VOICE Turncoat! Up the Boers! Who booed Joe Chamberlain?
BLOOM  My old dad too was a J.P. I'm as staunch a Britisher as you are, sir. I fought with the colours for king and country in the absentminded war under General Gough in the park and was disabled at Spion Kop and Bloemfontein, was mentioned in dispatches. I did all a white man could.  Jim Bludso. Hold her nozzle again the bank.
FIRST WATCH Profession or trade.
BLOOM Well, I follow a literary occupation. Author-journalist. In fact we are just bringing out a collection of prize stories of which I am the inventor, something that is an entirely new departure. I am connected with the British and Irish press. If you ring up...
MYLES CRAWFORD  Hello, seventyseven eightfour. Hello. Freeman's Urinal and Weekly Arse wiper here. Paralyse Europe. You which? Bluebags? Who writes? Is it Bloom?
BEAUFOY  No, you aren't, not by a long shot if I know it. I don't see it, that's all. No born gentleman, no one with the most rudimentary promptings of a gentleman would stoop to such particularly loathsome conduct. One of those, my lord. A plagiarist. A soapy sneak masquerading as a literateur. It's perfectly obvious that with the most inherent baseness he has cribbed some of my bestselling books, really gorgeous stuff, a perfect gem, the love passages in which are beneath suspicion. The Beaufoy books of love and great possessions with which your lordship is doubtless familiar, are a household word throughout the kingdom.
BLOOM  That bit about the laughing witch hand in hand I take exception to, if I may... ?
BEAUFOY  You funny ass, you! You're too beastly awfully weird for words! I don't think you need over excessively disincommodate yourself in that regard. My literary agent Mr J. B. Pinker is in attendance. I presume, my lord, we shall receive the usual witnesses' fees, shan't we? We are considerably out of pocket over this bally pressman johnny, this jackdaw of Rheims, who has not even been to a university.
BLOOM  University of life. Bad art.
BEAUFOY  It's a damnably foul lie showing the moral rottenness of the man!  We have here damning evidence, the corpus delicti, my lord, a specimen of my maturer work disfigured by the hallmark of the beast.
A VOICE FROM THE GALLERY
Moses, Moses, king of the jews,
Wiped his arse in the Daily News.
BLOOM  Overdrawn.
BEAUFOY You low cad! You ought to be ducked in the horsepond, you rotter!  Why, look at the man's private life! Leading a quadruple existence! Street angel and house devil. Not fit to be mentioned in mixed society. The arch conspirator of the age.
BLOOM  And he, a bachelor, how.
FIRST WATCH The King versus Bloom. Call the woman Driscoll.
THE CRIER Mary Driscoll, scullerymaid!
SECOND WATCH Another! Are you of the unfortunate class?
MARY DRISCOLL  I'm not a bad one. I bear a respectable character and was four months in my last place. I was in a situation, six pounds a year and my chances with Fridays out, and I had to leave owing to his carryings on.
FIRST WATCH What do you tax him with?
MARY DRISCOLL He made a certain suggestion but I thought more of myself as poor as I am.
BLOOM  I treated you white. I gave you mementoes, smart emerald garters far above your station. Incautiously I took your part when you were accused of pilfering. There's a medium in all things. Play cricket.
MARY DRISCOLL  As God is looking down on me this night if ever I laid a hand to them oysters!
FIRST WATCH The offence complained of? Did something happen?
MARY DRISCOLL He surprised me in the rere of the premises, your honour, when the missus was out shopping one morning with a request for a safety pin. He held me and I was discoloured in four places as a result. And he interfered twice with my clothing.
BLOOM She counterassaulted.
MARY DRISCOLL  I had more respect for the scouringbrush, so I had. I remonstrated with him, your lord, and he remarked: Keep it quiet!
GEORGES FOTTRELL  Order in court! The accused will now make a bogus statement.
LONGHAND AND SHORTHAND  Loosen his boots.
PROFESSOR MACHUGH  Cough it up, man. Get it out in bits.
J. J. O'MOLLOY  This is no place for indecent levity at the expense of an erring mortal disguised in liquor. We are not in a beargarden nor at an Oxford rag nor is this a travesty of justice. My client is an infant, a poor foreign immigrant who started scratch as a stowaway and is now trying to turn an honest penny. The trumped up misdemeanour was due to a momentary aberration of heredity, brought on by hallucination, such familiarities as the alleged guilty occurrence being quite permitted in my client's native place, the land of the Pharaoh. Prima facie, I put it to you that there was no attempt at carnally knowing. Intimacy did not occur and the offence complained of by Driscoll, that her virtue was solicited, was not repeated. I would deal inespecial with atavism. There have been cases of shipwreck and somnambulism in my client's family. If the accused could speak he could a tale unfold one of the strangest that have ever been narrated between the covers of a book. He himself, my lord, is a physical wreck from cobbler's weak chest. His submission is that he is of Mongolian extraction and irresponsible for his actions. Not all there, in fact.
BLOOM  Him makee velly muchee fine night. 
Li li poo lil chile,
Blingee pigfoot evly night.
Payee two shilly...
J. J. O'MOLLOY  This is a lonehand fight. By Hades, I will not have any client of mine gagged and badgered in this fashion by a pack of curs and laughing hyenas. The Mosaic code has superseded the law of the jungle. I say it and I say it emphatically without wishing for one moment to defeat the ends of justice, accused was not accessory before the act and prosecutrix has not been tampered with. The young person was treated by defendant as if she were his very own daughter.  I shall call rebutting evidence to prove up to the hilt that the hidden hand is again at its old game. When in doubt persecute Bloom. My client, an innately bashful man, would be the last man in the world to do anything ungentlemanly which injured modesty could object to or cast a stone at a girl who took the wrong turning when some dastard, responsible for her condition, had worked his own sweet will on her. He wants to go straight. I regard him as the whitest man I know. He is down on his luck at present owing to the mortgaging of his extensive property at Agendath Netaim in faraway Asia Minor, slides of which will now be shown.  I suggest that you will do the handsome thing.
BLOOM A penny in the pound.
DLUGACZ  Bleibtreustrasse, Berlin, W. 13.
J. J. O'MOLLOY  Excuse me, I am suffering from a severe chill, have recently come from a sickbed. A few wellchosen words.  When the angel's book comes to be opened if aught that the pensive bosom has inaugurated of soultransfigured and of soultransfiguring deserves to live I say accord the prisoner at the bar the sacred benefit of the doubt. 
BLOOM  Can give best references. Messrs Callan, Coleman. Mr Wisdom Hely J. P. My old chief Joe Cuffe. Mr V. B. Dillon, ex-lord mayor of Dublin. I have moved in the charmed circle of the highest . Queens of Dublin Society.  I was just chatting this afternoon at the viceregal lodge to my old pals, sir Robert and lady Ball, astronomer royal, at the levee. Sir Bob, I said...
MRS YELVERTON BARRY  Arrest him constable. He wrote me an anonymous letter in prentice backhand when my husband was in the North Riding of Tipperary on the Munster circuit, signed James Lovebirch. He said that he had seen from the gods my peerless globes as I sat in a box of the Theatre Royal at a command performance of La Cigale. I deeply inflamed him, he said. He made improper overtures to me to misconduct myself at half past four p.m. on the following Thursday, Dunsink time. He offered to send me through the post a work of fiction by Monsieur Paul de Kock, entitled The Girl with the Three Pairs of Stays.
MRS BELLINGHAM  Also to me. Yes, I believe it is the same objectionable person. Because he closed my carriage door outside sir Thornley Stoker's one sleety day during the cold snap of February ninetythree when even the grid of the wastepipe and ballstop in my bath cistern were frozen. Subsequently he enclosed a bloom of edelweiss culled on the heights, as he said, in my honour. I had it examined by a botanical expert and elicited the information that it was a blossom of the homegrown potato plant purloined from a forcingcase of the model farm.
MRS YELVERTON BARRY Shame on him!
THE SLUTS AND RAGAMUFFINS  Stop thief! Hurrah there, Bluebeard! Three cheers for Ikey Mo!
SECOND WATCH  Here are the darbies.
MRS BELLINGHAM He addressed me in several handwritings with fulsome compliments as a Venus in furs and alleged profound pity for my frostbound coachman Balmer while in the same breath he expressed himself as envious of his earflaps and fleecy sheepskins and of his fortunate proximity to my person, when standing behind my chair wearing my livery and the armorial bearings of the Bellingham escutcheon garnished sable, a buck's head couped or. He lauded almost extravagantly my nether extremities, my swelling calves in silk hose drawn up to the limit, and eulogised glowingly my other hidden treasures in priceless lace which, he said, he could conjure up. He urged me, stating that he felt it his mission in life to urge me, to defile the marriage bed, to commit adultery at the earliest possible opportunity.
THE HONOURABLE MRS MERVYN TALBOYS  Also me. Because he saw me on the polo ground of the Phoenix park at the match All Ireland versus the Rest of Ireland. My eyes, I know, shone divinely as I watched Captain Slogger Dennehy of the Inniskillings win the final chukkar on his darling cob Centaur. This plebeian Don Juan observed me from behind a hackney car and sent me in double envelopes an obscene photograph, such as are sold after dark on Paris boulevards, insulting to any lady. I have it still. It represents a partially nude senorita, frail and lovely , practising illicit intercourse with a muscular torero, evidently a blackguard. He urged me to do likewise, to misbehave, to sin with officers of the garrison. He implored me to soil his letter in an unspeakable manner, to chastise him as he richly deserves, to bestride and ride him, to give him a most vicious horsewhipping.
MRS BELLINGHAM Me too.
MRS YELVERTON BARRY Me too.
THE HONOURABLE MRS MERVYN TALBOYS  I will, by the God above me. I'll scourge the pigeonlivered cur as long as I can stand over him. I'll flay him alive.
BLOOM  Here?  Again!  I love the danger.
THE HONOURABLE MRS MERVYN TALBOYS Very much so! I'll make it hot for you. I'll make you dance Jack Latten for that.
MRS BELLINGHAM Tan his breech well, the upstart! Write the stars and stripes on it!
MRS YELVERTON BARRY Disgraceful! There's no excuse for him! A married man!
BLOOM All these people. I meant only the spanking idea. A warm tingling glow without effusion. Refined birching to stimulate the circulation.
THE HONOURABLE MRS MERVYN TALBOYS  O, did you, my fine fellow? Well, by the living God, you'll get the surprise of your life now, believe me, the most unmerciful hiding a man ever bargained for. You have lashed the dormant tigress in my nature into fury.
MRS BELLINGHAM  Make him smart, Hanna dear. Give him ginger. Thrash the mongrel within an inch of his life. The cat-o' nine-tails. Geld him. Vivisect him.
BLOOM  O cold! O shivery! It was your ambrosial beauty. Forget, forgive. Kismet. Let me off this once. 
MRS YELVERTON BARRY  Don't do so on any account, Mrs Talboys! He should be soundly trounced!
THE HONOURABLE MRS MERVYN TALBOYS  I'll do no such thing. Pig dog and always was ever since he was pupped! To dare address me! I'll flog him black and blue in the public streets. I'll dig my spurs in him up to the rowel. He is a wellknown cuckold.  Take down his trousers without loss of time. Come here, sir! Quick! Ready?
BLOOM  The weather has been so warm.
DAVY STEPHENS Messenger of the Sacred Heart and Evening Telegraph with Saint Patrick's Day Supplement. Containing the new addresses of all the cuckolds in Dublin.
THE TIMEPIECE 
Cuckoo
Cuckoo
Cuckoo
THE QUOITS Jigjag, Jigajiga. Jigjag.
THE NAMELESS ONE Bareback riding. Weight for age. Gob, he organised her.
THE JURORS  Really?
THE NAMELESS ONE  Arse over tip. Hundred shillings to five.
THE JURORS  Most of us thought as much.
FIRST WATCH He is a marked man. Another girl's plait cut. Wanted: Jack the Ripper. A thousand pounds reward.
SECOND WATCH  And in black. A mormon. Anarchist.
THE CRIER  Whereas Leopold Bloom of no fixed abode is a well-known dynamitard, forger, bigamist, bawd and cuckold ad a public nuisance to the citizens of Dublin and whereas at this commission of assizes the most honourable.
THE RECORDER I will put an end to this white slave traffic and rid Dublin of this odious pest. Scandalous!  Let him be taken, Mr Subsheriff, from the dock where he now stands and detained in custody in Mountjoy prison during His Majesty's pleasure and there be hanged by the neck until he is dead and therein fail not at your peril or may the Lord have-mercy on your soul. Remove him. 
LONG JOHN FANNING  Who'll hang Judas Iscariot?
RUMBOLD  Hanging Harry, your Majesty, the Mersey terror. Five guineas a jugular. Neck or nothing.
THE BELLS Heigho! Heigho!
BLOOM  Wait. Stop. Gulls. Good heart. I saw. Innocence. Girl in the monkeyhouse. Zoo. Lewd chimpanzees.  Pelvic basin. Her artless blush unmanned me.  I left the precincts.  Hynes, may I speak to you? You know me. That three shillings you can keep. If you want a little more .
HYNES  You are a perfect stranger.
SECOND WATCH  The bomb is here. FIRST WATCH Infernal machine with a time fuse. BLOOM No, no. Pig's feet. I was at a funeral. FIRST WATCH  Liar!
PADDY DIGNAM  It is true. It was my funeral. Doctor Finucane pronounced life extinct when I succumbed to the disease from natural causes.
BLOOM  You hear?
PADDY DIGNAM Bloom, I am Paddy Dignam's spirit. List, list, O list!
BLOOM The voice is the voice of Esau.
SECOND WATCH  How is that possible?
FIRST WATCH It is not in the penny catechism.
PADDY DIGNAM By metempsychosis. Spooks.
A VOICE O rocks.
PADDY DIGNAM  Once I was in the employ of Mr J. H. Menton, solicitor, commissioner for oaths and affidavits, of 27 Bachelor's Walk. Now I am defunct, the wall of the heart hypertrophied. Hard lines. The poor wife was awfully cut up. Dow is she bearing it? Keep her off that bottle of sherry.  A lamp. I must satisfy an animal need. That buttermilk didn't agree with me.
FATHER COFFEY  Namine. Jacobs Vobiscuits. Amen.
 Dignam, Patrick T., deceased.
PADDY DIGNAM  Overtones.
 My masters' voice!
JOHN O'CONNELL Burial docket letter number U. P. Eightyfive thousand. Field seventeen. House of Keys. Plot, one hundred and one.
PADDY DIGNAM Pray for the repose of his soul.
TOM ROCHFORD  Reuben J. A florin I find him.  My turn now on. Follow me up to Carlow.
THE KISSES  Leo!  Icky licky micky sticky for Leo!  Coo coocoo! Yummyumm Wom worn!  Big comebig! Pirouette! Leopopold!  Leeolee!  O Leo!
BLOOM A man's touch. Sad music. Church music. Perhaps here.
ZOE Are you looking for someone? He's inside with his friend.
BLOOM Is this Mrs Mack's?
ZOE No, eightyone. Mrs Cohen's. You might go farther and fare worse. Mother Slipperslapper.  She's on the job herself tonight with the vet, her tipster, that gives her all the winners and pays for her son in Oxford. Working overtime but her luck's turned today.  You're not his father, are you?
BLOOM Not I!
ZOE You both in black. Has little mousey any tickles tonight?
ZOE How's the nuts?
BLOOM Off side. Curiously they are on the right. Heavier I suppose. One in a million my tailor, Mesias, says.
ZOE  You've a hard chancre.
BLOOM Not likely.
ZOE I feel it.
BLOOM A talisman. Heirloom.
ZOE For Zoe? For keeps? For being so nice, eh?
ZOE You'll know me the next time.
BLOOM  I never loved a dear gazelle but it was sure to.
ZOE  Schorach ani wenowach, benoith Hierushaloim.
BLOOM  I thought you were of good stock by your accent.
ZOE And you know what thought did?
BLOOM  Are you a Dublin girl?
ZOE  No bloody fear. I'm English. Have you a swaggerroot?
BLOOM  Rarely smoke, dear. Cigar now and then. Childish device.  The mouth can be better engaged than with a cylinder of rank weed.
ZOE Go on. Make a stump speech out of it.
BLOOM  Mankind is incorrigible. Sir Walter Raleigh brought from the new world that potato and that weed, the one a killer of pestilence by absorption, the other a poisoner of the ear, eye, heart, memory, will, understanding, all. That is to say, he brought the poison a hundred years before another person whose name I forget brought the food. Suicide. Lies. All our habits. Why, look at our public life!
THE CHIMES Turn again, Leopold! Lord Mayor of Dublin!
BLOOM  Electors of Arran Quay, Inns Quay, Rotunda, Mountjoy and North Dock, better run a tramline, I say, from the cattlemarket to the river. That's the music of the future. That's my programme. Cui Bono? But our buccaneering Vanderdeckens in their phantom ship of finance...
AN ELECTOR Three times three for our future chief magistrate!
THE TORCH BEARERS Hooray!
LATE LORD MAYOR HARRINGTON  That alder man sir Leo Bloom's speech be printed at the expense of the ratepayers. That the house in which he was born be ornamented with a commemorative tablet and that the thoroughfare hitherto known as Cow Parlour off Cork street be henceforth designated Boulevard Bloom.
COUNCILLOR LORCAN SHERLOCK Carried unanimously.
BLOOM  These flying Dutchmen or lying Dutchmen as they recline in their upholstered poop, casting dice, what reck they? Machines is their cry, their chimera, their panacea. Laboursaving apparatuses, supplanters, bug-bears, manufactured monsters for mutual murder, hideous hobgoblins produced by a horde of capitalistic lusts upon our prostituted labour. The poor man starves while they are grassing their royal mountain stags or shooting peasants and phartridges in their purblind pomp of pelf and power. But their reign is rover for rever and ever and ev...
BLOOM'S BOYS
The wren, the wren,
The king of all birds,
Saint Stephen's his day,
Was caught in the furze.
A BLACKSMITH  For the Honour of God! And is that Bloom? He scarcely looks thirtyone.
A PAVIOR AND FLAGGER That's the famous Bloom now, the world's greatest reformer. Hats off!
A MILLIONAIRESS  Isn't he simply wonderful?
A NOBLEWOMAN  All that man has seen!
A FEMINIST  And done!
A BELLHANGER A classic face! He has the forehead of a thinker.
THE BISHOP OF DOWN AND CONNOR I here present your un doubted emperor president and king chairman, the most serene and potent and very puissant ruler of this realm. God save Leopold the First!
ALL God save Leopold the First!
BLOOM  Thanks, somewhat eminent sir.
WILLIAM, ARCHBISHOP OF ARMAGH  Will you to your power cause law and mercy to be executed in all your judgments in Ireland and territories thereunto belonging?
BLOOM  So may the Creator deal with me. All this I promise to do.
MICHAEL, ARCHBISHOP OF ARMAGH  Gaudium magnum annuntio vobis. Habemus carneficem. Leopold, Patrick, Andrew, David, George, be thou anointed!
THE PEERS I do become your liege man of life and limb to earthly worship.
BLOOM My subjects! We hereby nominate our faithful charger Copula Felix hereditary Grand Vizier and announce that we have this day repudiated our former spouse and have bestowed our royal hand upon the princess Selene, the splendour of night.
JOHN HOWARD PARNELL  Illustrious Bloom! Successor to my famous brother!
BLOOM  We thank you from our heart, John, for this right royal welcome to green Erin, the promised land of our common ancestors.
TOM KERNAN You deserve it, your honour.
BLOOM On this day twenty years ago we overcame the hereditary enemy at Ladysmith. Our howitzers and camel swivel guns played on his lines with telling effect. Half a league onward! They charge! All is lost now! Do we yield? No! We drive them headlong! Lo! We charge! Deploying to the left our light horse swept across the heights of Plevna and, uttering their warcry, Bonafide Sabaoth, sabred the Saracen gunners to a man.
THE CHAPEL OF FREEMAN TYPESETTERS Hear! Hear!
JOHN WYSE NOLAN There's the man that got away James Stephens.
A BLUECOAT SCHOOLBOY Bravo!
AN OLD RESIDENT You're a credit to your country, sir, that's what you are.
AN APPLEWOMAN He's a man like Ireland wants.
BLOOM My beloved subjects, a new era is about to dawn. I, Bloom, tell you verily it is even now at hand. Yea, on the word of a Bloom, ye shall ere long enter into the golden city which is to be, the new Bloomusalem in the Nova Hibernia of the future.
THE SIGHTSEERS  Morituri te salutant. 
THE MAN IN THE MACINTOSH Don't you believe a word he Says. That man is Leopold M'Intosh, the notorious fireraiser. His real name is Higgins.
BLOOM Shoot him! Dog of a christian! So much for M'Intosh!
, Care of the Baby , So Meals for 7/6 , Was Jesus a Sun Myth? , Expel that Pain , Infant's Compendium of the Universe , Let's All Chortle , Canvasser's Vade Mecum , love-letters of Mother Assistant , Who's Who in Space , Songs that Reached Our Heart , Pennywise's Way to Wealth . A general rush and scramble. Women press forward to touch the hem of Bloom's robe. The lady Gwendolen Dubedat bursts through the throng, leaps on his horse and kisses him on both cheeks amid great acclamation. A magnesium flashlight photograph is taken. Babes and sucklings are held up.)
THE WOMEN Little father! Little father!
THE BABES AND SUCKLINGS
Clap clap hands till Poldy comes home,
Cakes in his pocket for Leo alone.
BABY BOARDMAN  Hajajaja.
BLOOM  My more than Brother!  Dear old friends!  Peep! Bopeep!  Ticktacktwo wouldyousetashoe?  Roygbiv. 32 feet per second.  Absence makes the heart grow younger.  Leg it, ye devils!  Honourable wounds!  U.p.: up. U.p.: up.  Ah, naughty, naughty!  Fine! Splendid!  My dear fellow, not at all!  Please accept.  Come on, boys! Wriggle it, girls!
THE CITIZEN  May the good God bless him!
BLOOM  Aleph Beth Ghimel Daleth Hagadah Tephilim Kosher Yom Kippur Hanukah Ros chaschana Beni Brith Bar Mitzvah Mazzoth Askenazim Meshuggah Talith.
JIMMY HENRY The Court of Conscience is now open. His Most Catholic Majesty will now administer open air justice. Free medical and legal advice, solution of doubles and other problems. All cordially invited. Given at this our loyal city of Dublin in the year I of the Paradisiacal Era.
PADDY LEONARD What am I to do about my rates and taxes?
BLOOM Pay them, my friend.
PADDY LEONARD Thank you.
NOSEY FLYNN Can I raise a mortgage on my fire insurance?
BLOOM  Sirs, take notice that by the law of torts you are bound over in your own recognisances for six months in the sum of five pounds.
J.J. O'MOLLY A Daniel did I say? Nay! A Peter O'Brien!
NOSEY FLYNN Where do I draw the five pounds?
PISSER BURKE For bladder trouble?
BLOOM
Acid. nit. hydrochlor dil., 20 minims,
Tinct. mix. vom., 4 minims.
Extr. taraxel. lig., 30 minims.
Aq. dis. ter in die.
CHRIS CALLINAN What is the parallax of the subsolar ecliptic of Aldebaran?
BLOOM Pleased to hear from you, Chris. K. II.
JOE HYNES Why aren't you in uniform?
BLOOM When my progenitor of sainted memory wore the uniform of the Austrian despot in a dank prison where was yours?
BEN DOLLARD Pansies?
BLOOM Embellish  suburban gardens.
BEN DOLLARD When twins arrive?
BLOOM Father  starts thinking.
LARRY O'ROURKE An eight day licence for my new premises. You remember me, sir Leo, when you were in number seven. I'm sending around a dozen of stout for the missus.
BLOOM  You have the advantage of me. Lady Bloom accepts no presents.
CROFTON This is indeed a festivity.
BLOOM  You call it a festivity. I call it a sacrament.
ALEXANDER KEYES When will we have our own house of keys?
BLOOM I stand for the reform of municipal morals and the plain ten commandments. New worlds for old. Union of all, jew, moslem and gentile. Three acres and a cow for all children of nature. Saloon motor hearses. Compulsory manual labour for all. All parks open to the public day and night. Electric dishscrubbers. Tuberculosis, lunacy, war and mendicancy must now cease. General amnesty, weekly carnival, with masked licence, bonuses for all, esperanto the universal brotherhood. No more patriotism of barspongers and dropsical impostors. Free money, free love and a free lay church in a free lay state.
O'MADDEN BURKE Free fox in a free henroost.
DAVY BYRNE  Iiiiiiiiiaaaaaaach!
BLOOM Mixed races and mixed marriage.
LENEHAN What about mixed bathing?
FATHER FARLEY He is an episcopalian, an agnostic, an any thingarian seeking to overthrow our holy faith.
MRS RIORDAN  I'm disappointed in you! You bad man!
MOTHER GROGAN  You beast! You abominable person!
NOSEY FLYNN Give us a tune, Bloom. One of the old sweet songs.
BLOOM 
I vowed that I never would leave her,
She turned out a cruel deceiver.
With my tooraloom tooraloom tooralcom tooraloom.
HOPPY HOLOHAN Good old Bloom! There's nobody like him after all.
PADDY LEONARD Stage Irishman!
BLOOM What railway opera is like a tramline in Gibraltar? The Rows of Casteele. 
LENEHAN Plagiarist! Down with Bloom!
THE VEILED SIBYL  I'm a Bloomite and I glory in it. I believe in him in spite of all. I'd give my life for him, the funniest man on earth.
BLOOM  I bet she's a bonny lassie.
THEODORE PUREFOY  He employs a mechanical device to frustrate the sacred ends of nature.
THE VEILED SIBYL  My hero god! 
ALEXANDER J. DOWIE  Fellowchristians and antiBloomites, the man called Bloom is from the roots of hell, a disgrace to christian men. A fiendish libertine from his earliest years this stinking goat of Mendes gave precocious signs of infantile debauchery recalling the cities of the plain, with a dissolute granddam. This vile hypocrite, bronzed with infamy, is the white bull mentioned in the Apocalypse. A worshipper of the Scarlet Woman, intrigue is the very breath of his nostrils. The stake faggots and the caldron of boiling oil are for him. Caliban!
THE MOB Lynch him! Roast him! He's as bad as Parnell was. Mr Fox!
BLOOM  This is midsummer madness, some ghastly joke again. By heaven, I am guiltless as the unsunned snow! It was my brother Henry. He is my double. He lives in number 2 Dolphin's Barn. Slander, the viper, has wrongfully accused me. Fellowcountrymen, sgenl inn ban bata coisde gan capall. I call on my old friend, Dr Malachi Mulligan, sex specialist to give medical testimony on my behalf.
DR MULLIGAN  Dr Bloom is bisexually abnormal. He has recently escaped from Dr Eustace's private asylum for demented gentlemen. Born out of bedlock hereditary epilepsy is present, the consequence of unbridled lust. Traces of elephantiasis have been discovered among his ascendants. There are marked symptoms of chronic exhibitionism. Ambidexterity is also latent. He is prematurely bald from selfabuse, perversely idealistic in consequence, a reformed rake, and has metal teeth. In consequence of a family complex he has temporarily lost his memory and I believe him to be more sinned against than sinning. I have made a pervaginal examination and, after application of the acid test to 5427 anal, axillary, pectoral and pubic hairs, I declare him to be virgo intacta.
DR MADDEN Hypsospadia is also marked. In the interest of coming generations I suggest that the parts affected should be preserved in spirits of wine in the national teratological museum.
DR CROTTHERS I have examined the patient's urine. It is albuminoid. Salivation is insufficient, the patellar reflex intermittent.
DR PUNCH COSTELLO The fetor judaicus is most perceptible.
DR DIXON  Professor Bloom is a finished example of the new womanly man. His moral nature is simple and lovable. Many have found him a dear man, a dear person. He is a rather quaint fellow on the whole, coy though not feeble-minded in the medical sense. He has written a really beautiful letter, a poem in itself, to the court missionary of the Reformed Priests' Protection Society which clears up everything. He is practically a total abstainer and I can affirm that he sleeps on a straw litter and eats the most Spartan food, cold dried grocer's peas. He wears a hairshirt winter and summer and scourges himself every Saturday. He was, I understand, at one time a firstclass misdemeanant in Glencree reformatory. Another report states that he was a very posthumous child. I appeal for clemency in the name of the most sacred word our vocal organs have ever been called upon to speak. He is about to have a baby.
BLOOM O, I so want to be a mother.
MRS THORNTON  Embrace me tight, dear. You'll be soon over it. Tight, dear.
A VOICE Bloom, are you the Messiah ben Joseph or ben David?
BLOOM  You have said it.
BROTHER BUZZ Then perform a miracle.
BANTAM LYONS Prophesy who will win the Saint Leger.
, heals several sufferers from kings evil, contracts his face so as to resemble many historical personages, lord Beaconsfield, lord Byron, Wat Tyler, Moses of Egypt, Moses Maimonides, Moses Mendelssohn, Henry Irving, Rip van Winkle, Rossuth, Jean Jacques Rousseau, Baron Leopold Rothschild, Robinson Crusoe, Sherlock Holmes, Pasteur, turns each foot simultaneously in different directions, bids the tide turn back, eclipses the sun by extending his little finger.)
BRINI, PAPAL NUNCIO  Leopoldi autem generatio. Moses begat Noah and Noah begat Eunuch and Eunuch begat O'Halloran and O'Halloran begat Guggenheim and Guggenheim begat Agendath and Agendath begat Netaim and Netaim begat Le Hirsch and Le Hirsch begat Jesurum and Jesurum begat MacKay and MacKay begat Ostrolopsky and Ostrolopsky begat Smerdoz and Smerdoz begat Weiss and Weiss begat Schwarz and Schwarz begat Adrianopoli and Adrianopoli began Aranjuez and Aranjuez begat Lewy Lawson and Lewy Lawson begat Ichabudonosor and Ichabudonosor begat O'Donnell Magnus and O'Donnell Magnus begat Christbaum and Christbaum begat Ben Maimun and Ben Maimun begat Dusty Rhodes and Dusty Rhodes begat Benamor and Benamor begat Jones-Smith and Jones-Smith begat Savorgnanovich and Savorgnanovich begat Jasperstone and Jasperstone begat Vingtetunieme and Vingtetunieme begat Szombathely and Szombathely begat Virag and Virag begat Bloom et vocabitur nomen eius Emmanuel.
A DEADHAND  Bloom is a cod. A CRAB  What did you do in the cattlecreep behind Kilbarrack?
A FEMALE INFANT  And under Ballybough bridge?
A HOLLYBUSH And in the devil's glen?
BLOOM  Spare my past.
THE IRISH EVICTED TENANTS  Sjambok him!
THE ARTANE ORPHANS
You big, you bog, you dirty dog!
You think the ladies love you!
THE PRISON GATE GIRLS
If you see kay
Tell him he may
See you in tea
Tell him from me.
HORNBLOWER  And he shall carry the sins of the people to Azazel, the spirit which is in the wilderness, and to Lilith, the nighthag. And they shall stone him and defile him, yea, all from Agendath Netaim and from Mizraim, the land of Ham.
MASTIANSKY AND CITRON Belial! Laemlein of Istria! the false Messiah! Abulafia!
MESIAS To alteration one pair trousers eleven shillings.
BLOOM  Just like old times. Poor Bloom!
REUBEN J.  The squeak is out. A split is gone for the flatties. Nip the first rattler.
THE FIRE BRIGADE Pflaap!
BROTHER BUZZ  Forgive him his trespasses.
THE CITIZEN Thank heaven!
BLOOM  Weep not for me, O daughters of Erin.
THE DAUGHTERS OF ERIN Kidney of Bloom, pray for us. Flower of the Bath, pray for us. Mentor of Menton, pray for us. Canvasser for the Freeman, pray for us. Charitable Mason, pray for us. Wandering Soap, pray for us. Sweets of Sin, pray for us. Music without Words, pray for us. Reprover of the Citizen, pray for us. Friend of all Frillies, pray for us. Midwife Most Merciful, pray for us. Potato Preservative against Plague and Pestilence, pray for us.
ZOE Talk away till you're black in the face.
BLOOM  Let me be going now, woman of the house, for by all the goats in Connemara I'm after having the father and mother of a bating.  All insanity. Patriotism, sorrow for the dead, music, future of the race. To be or not to be. Life's dream is o'er. End it peacefully. They can live on.  I am ruined. A few pastilles of aconite. The blinds drawn. A letter. Then lie back to rest.  No more. I have lived. Fare. Farewell.
ZOE  Honest? Till the next time.  Suppose you got up the wrong side of the bed or came too quick with your best girl. O, I can read your thoughts.
BLOOM  Man and woman, love, what is it? A cork and bottle.
ZOE  I hate a rotter that's insincere. Give a bleeding whore a chance.
BLOOM  I am very disagreeable. You are a necessary evil. Where are you from? London?
ZOE  Hog's Norton where the pigs play the organs. I'm Yorkshire born.  I say, Tommy Tittlemouse. Stop that and begin worse. Have you cash for a short time? Ten shillings?
BLOOM  More, houri, more.
ZOE And more's mother?  Are you coming into the musicroom to see our new pianola? Come and I'll peel off.
BLOOM  Somebody would be dreadfully jealous if she knew. The greeneyed monster.  You know how difficult it is. I needn't tell you.
ZOE  What the eye can't see the heart can't grieve for.  Come.
BLOOM Laughing witch! The hand that rocks the cradle.
ZOE Babby!
BLOOM  One two tlee: tlee tlwo tlone.
THE BUCKLES Love me. Love me not. Love me.
ZOE Silent means consent.  Hot hands cold gizzard.
THE MALE BRUTES  Good!
ZOE  Hoopsa! Don't fall upstairs.
BLOOM The just man falls seven times.  After you is good manners.
ZOE Ladies first, gentlemen after.
KITTY  She's a bit imbecilic.  Blemblem.  Respect yourself.  O, excuse!
ZOE More limelight, Charley. 
KITTY  What ails it tonight?
LYNCH  Enter a ghost and hobgoblins.
ZOE Clap on the back for Zoe.
KITTY  O, excuse!
ZOE  Your boy's thinking of you. Tie a knot on your shift.
STEPHEN As a matter of fact it is of no importance whether Benedetto Marcello found it or made it. The rite is the poet's rest. It may be an old hymn to Demeter or also illustrate Coela enarrant gloriam Domini. It is susceptible of nodes or modes as far apart as hyperphrygian and mixolydian and of texts so divergent as priests haihooping round David's that is Circe's or what am I saying Ceres' altar and David's tip from the stable to his chief bassoonist about his almightiness. Mais, nom de nom, that is another pair of trousers. Jetez la gourme. Faut que jeunesse se passe.  Which side is your knowledge bump?
THE CAP  Bah! It is because it is. Woman's reason. Jewgreek is greekjew. Extremes meet. Death is the highest form of life. Bah!
STEPHEN You remember fairly accurately all my errors, boasts, mistakes. How long shall I continue to close my eyes to disloyalty? Whetstone!
THE CAP Bah!
STEPHEN Here's another for you.  The reason is because the fundamental and the dominant are separated by the greatest possible interval which .
THE CAP Which? Finish. You can't.
STEPHEN  Interval which. Is the greatest possible ellipse. Consistent with. The ultimate return. The octave. Which.
THE CAP Which? 
STEPHEN  What went forth to the ends of the world to traverse not itself. God, the sun, Shakespeare, a commercial traveller, having itself traversed in reality itself, becomes that self. Wait a moment. Wait a second. Damn that fellow's noise in the street. Self which it itself was ineluctably preconditioned to become. Ecco!
LYNCH  What a learned speech, eh?
ZOE  God help your head, he knows more than you have forgotten.
FLORRY They say the last day is coming this summer.
KITTY No!
ZOE  Great unjust God!
FLORRY  Well, it was in the papers about Anti christ. O, my foot's tickling.
THE NEWSBOYS Stop press edition. Result of the rockinghorse races. Sea serpent in the royal canal. Safe arrival of Antichrist.
STEPHEN A time, times and half a time.
ALL What?
THE HOBGOBLIN  Il vient! C'est moi! L'homme qui rit! L'homme primigene!  Sieurs et dames, faites vos jeux!  Les jeux son! faits!  Rien n'va plus. 
FLORRY  The end of the world!
THE GRAMOPHONE Jerusalem! Open your gates and sing Hosanna...
THE END OF THE WORLD  Wha'll dance the keel row, the keel row, the keel row?
ELIJAH No yapping, if you please, in this booth. Jake Crane, Creole Sue, Dave Campbell, Abe Kirschner, do your coughing with your mouths shut. Say, I am operating all this trunk line. Boys, do it now. God's time is 12.25. Tell mother you'll be there. Rush your order and you play a slick ace. Join on right here! Book through to eternity junction, the nonstop run. Just one word more. Are you a god or a doggone clod? If the second advent came to Coney Island are we ready? Florry Christ, Stephen Christ, Zoe Christ, Bloom Christ, Kitty Christ, Lynch Christ, it's up to you to sense that cosmic force. Have we cold feet about the cosmos? No. Be on the side of the angels. Be a prism. You have that something within, the higher self. You can rub shoulders with a Jesus, a Gautama, an Ingersoll. Are you all in this vibration? I say you are. You once nobble that, congregation, and a buck joyride to heaven becomes a back number. You got me? It's a lifebrightener, sure. The hottest stuff ever was. It's the whole pie with jam in. It's just the cutest snappiest line out. It is immense, supersumptuous. It restores. It vibrates. I know and I am some vibrator. Joking apart and getting down to bedrock, A. J. Christ Dowie and the harmonial philosophy, have you got that? O.K. Seventyseven west sixtyninth street. Got me? That's it. You call me up by sunphone any old time. Bumboosers, save your stamps.  Now then our glory song. All join heartily in the singing. Encore!  Jeru...
THE GRAMOPHONE  Whorusalaminyour highhohhhh.
THE THREE' WHORES  Ahhkkk!
ELIJAH  Big Brother up there, Mr President, you hear what I done just been saying to you. Certainly, I sort of believe strong in you, Mr President. I certainly am thinking now Miss Higgins and Miss Ricketts got religion way inside them. Certainly seems to me I don't never see no wusser scared female than the way you been, Miss Florry, just now as I done seed you. Mr President, you come long and help me save our sisters dear.  Our Mr President, he twig the whole lot and he ain't saying nothing.
KITTY-KATE I forgot myself. In a weak moment I erred and did what I did on Constitution hill. I was confirmed by the bishop. My mother's sister married a Montmorency. It was a working plumber was my ruination when I was pure.
ZOE-FANNY I let him larrup it into me for the fun of it.
FLORRY-TERESA It was in consequence of a portwine beverage on top of Hennessy's three stars I was guilty with Whelan when he slipped into the bed.
STEPHEN In the beginning was the word, in the end the world without end. Blessed be the eight beatitudes.
THE BEATITUDES  Beer beef battledog buybull businum barnum buggerum bishop.
LYSTER  He is our friend. I need not mention names. Seek thou the light.
BEST  I was just beautifying him, don't you know. A thing of beauty, don't you know. Yeats says, or I mean, Keats says.  Esthetics and cosmetics are for the boudoir. I am out for truth. Plain truth for a plain man. Tanderagee wants the facts and means to get them.
MANANAAN MACLIR  Aum! Hek! Wal! Ak! Lub! Mor! Ma! White yoghin of the Gods. Occult pimander of Hermes Trismegistos.  Punarjanam patsypunjaub! I won't have my leg pulled. It has been said by one: beware the left, the cult of Shakti.  Shakti, Shiva! Dark hidden Father!  Aum! Baum! Pyjaum! I am the light of the homestead, I am the dreamery creamery butter.
THE GASJET Pooah! Pfuiiiiii!
ZOE Who has a fag as I'm here?
LYNCH  Here.
ZOE  Is that the way to hand the pot to a lady?  Can you see the beauty spot of my behind?
LYNCH I'm not looking.
ZOE  No? You wouldn't do a less thing. Would you suck a lemon?
VIRAG  My name is Virag Lipoti, of Szombathely.  Promiscuous nakedness is much in evidence hereabouts, eh? Inadvertently her backview revealed the fact that she is not wearing those rather intimate garments of which you are a particular devotee. The injection mark on the thigh I hope you perceived? Good.
BLOOM Granpapachi. But...
VIRAG Number two on the other hand, she of the cherry rouge and coiffeuse white, whose hair owes not a little to our tribal elixir of gopherwood, is in walking costume and tightly staysed by her sit, I should opine. Backbone in front, so to say. Correct me but I always understood that the act so performed by skittish humans with glimpses of lingerie appealed to you in virtue of its exhibitionististicicity. In a word. Hippogriff. Am I right?
BLOOM She is rather lean.
VIRAG  Absolutely! Well observed and those pannier pockets of the skirt and slightly pegtop effect are devised to suggest bunchiness of hip. A new purchase at some monster sale for which a gull has been mulcted. Meretricious finery to deceive the eye. Observe the attention to details of dustspecks. Never put on you tomorrow what you can wear today. Parallax!  Did you hear my brain go snap? Pollysyllabax!
BLOOM  She seems sad.
VIRAG  Hoax! Beware of the flapper and bogus mournful. Lily of the alley. All possess bachelor's button discovered by Rualdus Colombus. Tumble her. Columble her. Chameleon.  Well then, permit me to draw your attention to item number three. There is plenty of her visible to the naked eye. Observe the mass of oxygenated vegetable matter on her skull. What ho, she bumps! The ugly duckling of the party, longcasted and deep in keel.
BLOOM  When you come out without your gun.
VIRAG We can do you all brands, mild, medium and strong. Pay your money, take your choice. How happy could you be with either...
BLOOM With?...
VIRAG  Lyum! Look. Her beam is broad. She is coated with quite a considerable layer of fat. Obviously mammal in weight of bosom you remark that she has in front well to the fore two protuberances of very respectable dimensions, inclined to fall in the noonday soupplate, while on her rere lower down are two additional protuberances, suggestive of potent rectum and tumescent for palpation which leave nothing to be desired save compactness. Such fleshy parts are the product of careful nurture. When coopfattened their livers reach an elephantine size. Pellets of new bread with fennygreek and gumbenjamin swamped down by potions of green tea endow them during their brief existence with natural pincushions of quite colossal blubber. That suits your book, eh? Fleshhotpots of Egypt to hanker after. Wallow in it. Lycopodium.  Slapbang! There he goes again.
BLOOM The stye I dislike.
VIRAG  Contact with a goldring, they say. Argumentum ad feminam, as we said in old Rome and ancient Greece in the consulship of Diplodocus and Ichthyo saurus. For the rest Eve's sovereign remedy. Not for sale. Hire only. Huguenot.  It is a funny sound.
 But possibly it is only a wart. I presume you shall have remembered what I will have taught you on that head? Wheatenmeal with honey and nutmeg.
BLOOM  Wheatenmeal with lycopodium and syllabax. This searching ordeal. It has been an unusually fatiguing day, a chapter of accidents. Wait. I mean, wartsblood spreads warts, you said .
VIRAG  Stop twirling your thumbs and have a good old thunk. See, you have forgotten. Exercise your mnemotechnic. La causa è santa. Tara. Tara.  He will surely remember.
BLOOM Rosemary also did I understand you to say or will power over parasitic tissues. Then nay no I have an inkling. The touch of a deadhand cures. Mnemo?
VIRAG  I say so. I say so. E'en so. Technic.  This book tells you how to act with all descriptive particulars. Consult index for agitated fear of aconite, melancholy of muriatic, priapic pulsatilla. Virag is going to talk about amputation. Our old friend caustic. They must be starved. Snip off with horsehair under the denned neck. But, to change the venue to the Bulgar and the Basque, have you made up your mind whether you like or dislike women in male habiliments?  You intended to devote an entire year to the study of the religious problem and the summer months of 1882 to square the circle and win that million. Pomegranate! From the sublime to the ridiculous is but a step. Pyjamas, let us say? Or stockingette gusseted knickers, closed? Or, put we the case, those complicated combinations, camiknickers?  Keekeereekee!
BLOOM I wanted then to have now concluded. Nightdress was never. Hence this. But tomorrow is a new day will be. Past was is today. What now is will then tomorrow as now was be past yester.
VIRAG  Insects of the day spend their brief existence in reiterated coition, lured by the smell of the inferiorly pulchritudinous female possessing extendified pudendal verve in dorsal region. Pretty Poll!  They had a proverb in the Carpathians in or about the year five thousand five hundred and fifty of our era. One tablespoonful of honey will attract friend Bruin more than half a dozen barrels of first choice malt vinegar. Bear's buzz bothers bees. But of this apart. At another time we may resume. We were very pleased, we others.  You shall find that these night insects follow the light. An illusion for remember their complex unadjustable eye. For all these knotty points see the seventeenth book of my Fundamentals of Sexology or the Love Passion which Doctor L. B. says is the book sensation of the year. Some, to example, there are again whose movements are automatic. Perceive. That is his appropriate sun. Nightbird nightsun nighttown. Chase me, Charley! Buzz!
BLOOM Bee or bluebottle too other day butting shadow on wall dazed self then me wandered dazed down shirt good job I...
VIRAG  Splendid! Spanish fly in his fly or mustard plaster on his dibble.  Bubbly jock! Bubbly jock! Where are we? Open Sesame! Cometh forth!  Stay, good friend. I bring thee thy answer Redbank oysters will shortly be upon us. I'm the best o'cook. Those succulent bivalves may help us and the truffles of Perigord, tubers dislodged through mister omnivorous porker, were unsurpassed in cases of nervous debility or viragitis. Though they stink yet they sting.  Jocular. With my eyeglass in my ocular.
BLOOM  Ocularly woman's bivalve case is worse. Always open sesame. The cloven sex. Why they fear vermin, creeping things. Yet Eve and the serpent contradict. Not a historical fact. Obvious analogy to my idea. Serpents too are gluttons for woman's milk. Wind their way through miles of omnivorous forest to sucksucculent her breast dry. Like those bubblyjocular Roman matrons one reads of in Elephantuliasis.
VIRAG  That the cows with their those distended udders that they have been the known...
BLOOM I am going to scream. I beg your pardon. Ah? So.  Spontaneously to seek out the saurian's lair in order to entrust their teats to his avid suction. Ant milks aphis.  Instinct rules the world. In life. In death.
VIRAG  Who's Ger Ger? Who's dear Gerald? O, I much fear he shall be most badly burned. Will some pleashe pershon not now impediment so catastrophics mit agitation of firstclass tablenumpkin?  Luss puss puss puss!  Well, well. He doth rest anon.
I'm a tiny tiny thing
Ever flying in the spring
Round and round a ringaring.
Long ago I was a king,
Now I do this kind of thing
On the wing, on the wing!
Bing!
 Pretty pretty pretty pretty pretty pretty petticoats.
HENRY  There is a flower that bloometh.
STEPHEN  Play with your eyes shut. Imitate pa. Filling my belly with husks of swine. Too much of this. I will arise and go to my. Expect this is the. Steve, thou art in a parlous way. Must visit old Deasy or telegraph. Our interview of this morning has left on me a deep impression. Though our ages. Will write fully tomorrow. I'm partially drunk, by the way.  Minor chord comes now. Yes. Not much however.
ARTIFONI Ci rifletta. Lei rovina tutto.
FLORRY Sing us something. Love's old sweet song.
STEPHEN No voice. I am a most finished artist. Lynch, did I show you the letter about the lute?
FLORRY  The bird that can sing and won't sing.
PHILIP SOBER Take a fool's advice. All is not well. Work it out with the buttend of a pencil, like a good young idiot. Three pounds twelve you got, two notes, one sovereign, two crowns, if youth but knew. Mooney's en ville, Mooney's sur mer, the Moira, Larchet's, Holles street hospital, Burke's. Eh? I am watching you.
PHILIP DRUNK  Ah, bosh, man. Go to hell! I paid my way. If I could only find out about octaves. Reduplication of personality. Who was it told me his name?
 Aha, yes. Zoe mou sas agapo. Have a notion I was here before. When was it not Atkinson his card I have somewhere? Mac somebody. Unmack I have it. He told me about, hold on, Swinburne, was it, no?
FLORRY And the song?
STEPHEN Spirit is willing but the flesh is weak.
FLORRY Are you out of Maynooth? You're like someone I knew once.
STEPHEN Out of it now.  Clever.
PHILIP DRUNK AND PHILIP SOBER  Clever ever. Out of it. Out of it. By the by have you the book, the thing, the ashplant? Yes, there it, yes. Cleverever outofitnow. Keep in condition. Do like us.
ZOE There was a priest down here two nights ago to do his bit of business with his coat buttoned up. You needn't try to hide, I says to him. I know you've a Roman collar.
VIRAG Perfectly logical from his standpoint. Fall of man.  To hell with the pope! Nothing new under the sun. I am the Virag who disclosed the sex secrets of monks and maidens. Why I left the Church of Rome. Read the Priest, the Woman and the Confessional. Penrose. Flipperty Jippert.  Woman, undoing with sweet pudor her belt of rushrope, offers her allmoist yoni to man's lingam. Short time after man presents woman with pieces of jungle meat. Woman shows joy and covers herself with featherskins. Man loves her yoni fiercely with big lingam, the stiff one.  Coactus volui. Then giddy woman will run about. Strong man grasps woman's wrist. Woman squeals, bites, spucks. Man, now fierce angry, strikes woman's fat yadgana.  Piffpaff! Popo!  Pchp!  Prrrrrht!
LYNCH I hope you gave the good father a penance. Nine glorias for shooting a bishop.
ZOE  He couldn't get a connection. Only, you know, sensation. A dry rush.
BLOOM Poor man!
ZOE  Only for what happened him.
BLOOM How?
VIRAG  Verfluchte Goim! He had a father, forty fathers. He never existed. Pig God! He had two left feet. He was Judas Iacchias, a Libyan eunuch, the pope's bastard.  A son of a whore. Apocalypse.
KITTY And Mary Shortall that was in the lock with the pox she got from Jimmy Pidgeon in the blue caps had a child off him that couldn't swallow and was smothered with the convulsions in the mattress and we all subscribed for the funeral.
PHILIP DRUNK  Qui vous a mis dans cette fichue position, Philippe?
PHILIP SOBER  C'était le sacré pigeon, Philippe.
LYNCH  And to such delights has Metchnikoff inoculated anthropoid apes.
FLORRY  Locomotor ataxy.
ZOE  O, my dictionary.
LYNCH Three wise virgins.
VIRAG  She sold lovephiltres, whitewax, orange flower. Panther, the Roman centurion, polluted her with his genitories.  Messiah! He burst her tympanum.  Hik! Hek! Hak! Hok! Huk! Kok! Kuk!
BEN POLLARD  When love absorbs my ardent soul.
THE VIRGINS  Big Ben! Ben MacChree!
A VOICE Hold that fellow with the bad breeches.
BEN DOLLARD  Hold him now.
HENRY  Thine heart, mine love.  When first I saw.
VIRAG  Rats!  After having said which I took my departure. Farewell. Fare thee well. Dreck!
THE FLYBILL K. 11. post no bills. Strictly confidential. Dr Hy Franks.
HENRY All is lost now.
VIRAG'S HEAD Quack!
STEPHEN  You would have preferred the fighting parson who founded the protestant error. But beware Antisthenes, the dog sage, and the last end of Anus Heresiarchus. The agony in the closet.
LYNCH All one and the same God to her.
STEPHEN  And Sovereign Lord of all things.
FLORRY  I'm sure you are a spoiled priest. Or a monk.
LYNCH He is. A Cardinal's son.
STEPHEN Cardinal sin. Monks of the screw.
THE CARDINAL
Conservio lies captured.
He lies in the lowest dungeon
With manacles and chains around his limbs
Weighing upwards of three tons.
 O, the poor little fellow Hi-hi-hi-hi-his legs they were yellow He was plump, fat and heavy and brisk as a snake But some bloody savage To graize his white cabbage He murdered Nell Flaherty's duckloving drake.
 I'm suffering the agony of the damned. By the hoky fiddle, thanks be to Jesus those funny little chaps are not unanimous. If they were they'd walk me off the face of the bloody globe.
 Shall carry my heart to thee, Shall carry my heart to thee, And the breath of the balmy night Shall carry my heart to thee.
THE DOORHANDLE Theeee.
ZOE The devil is in that door.
ZOE  Hum. Thank your mother for the rabbits. I'm very fond of what I like.
BLOOM  If it were he? After? Or because not? Or the double event?
ZOE  Fingers was made before forks.  No objection to French lozenges?  Have it now or wait till you get it?  Catch.
KITTY  The engineer I was with at the bazaar does have lovely ones. Full of the best liqueurs. And the viceroy was there with his lady. The gas we had on the Toft's hobbyhorses. I'm giddy still.
BLOOM  Go, go, go, I conjure you, whoever you are.
BLOOM  Thanks.
ZOE Do as you're bid. Here.
BLOOM  Aphrodisiac? But I thought it. Vanilla calms or? Mnemo. Confused light confuses memory. Red influences lupus. Colours affect women's characters, any they have. This black makes me sad. Eat and be merry for tomorrow.  Influence taste too, mauve. But it is so long since I. Seems new. Aphro. That priest. Must come. Better late than never. Try truffles at Andrews.
BELLA My word! I'm all of a mucksweat.
THE FAN  Married, I see.
BLOOM Yes... Partly, I have mislaid .
THE FAN  And the missus is master. Petticoat government.
BLOOM  That is so.
THE FAN  Have you forgotten me?
BLOOM Yes. No.
THE FAN  Is me her was you dreamed before? Was then she him you us since knew? Am all them and the same now we? 
BLOOM  Powerful being. In my eyes read that slumber which women love.
THE FAN  We have met. You are mine. It is fate.
BLOOM  Exuberant female. Enormously I desiderate your domination. I am exhausted, abandoned, no more young. I stand, so to speak, with an unposted letter bearing the extra regulation fee before the too late box of the general postoffice of human life. The door and window open at a right angle cause a draught of thirtytwo feet per second according to the law of falling bodies. I have felt this instant a twinge of sciatica in my left glutear muscle. It runs in our family. Poor dear papa, a widower, was a regular barometer from it. He believed in animal heat. A skin of tabby lined his winter waistcoat. Near the end, remembering king David and the Sunamite, he shared his bed with Athos, faithful after death. A dog's spittle, as you probably...  Ah!
RICHIE GOULDING  Mocking is catch. Best value in Dub. Fit for a prince's liver and kidney.
THE FAN  All things end. Be mine. Now.
BLOOM  All now? I should not have parted with my talisman. Rain, exposure at dewfall on the sea rocks, a peccadillo at my time of life. Every phenomenon has a natural cause.
THE FAN  You may.
BLOOM  We are observed.
THE FAN  You must.
BLOOM  I can make a true black knot. Learned when I served my time and worked the mail order line for Kellet's. Experienced hand. Every knot says a lot. Let me. In courtesy. I knelt once before today. Ah!
BLOOM  To be a shoefitter in Mansfield's was my love's young dream, the darling joys of sweet buttonhooking, to lace up crisscrossed to kneelength the dressy kid footwear satinlined, so incredibly small, of Clyde Road ladies. Even their wax model Raymonde I visited daily to admire her cobweb hose and stick of rhubarb toe, as worn in Paris.
THE HOOF Smell my hot goathide. Feel my royal weight.
BLOOM  Too tight?
THE HOOF If you bungle, Handy Andy, I'll kick your football for you.
BLOOM Not to lace the wrong eyelet as I did the night of the bazaar dance. Bad luck. Nook in wrong tache of her... person you mentioned. That night she met... Now!
BLOOM  Awaiting your further orders, we remain, gentlemen.
BELLO  Hound of dishonour!
BLOOM  Empress!
BELLO  Adorer of the adulterous rump!
BLOOM  Hugeness!
BELLO Dungdevourer!
BLOOM  Magnificence.
BELLO Down!  Incline feet forward! Slide left foot one pace back. You will fall. You are falling. On the hands down!
BLOOM  Truffles!
BELLO  Feel my entire weight. Bow, bondslave, before the throne of your despot's glorious heels, so glistening in their proud erectness.
BLOOM  I promise never to disobey.
BELLO  Holy smoke! You little know what's in store for you. I'm the tartar to settle your little lot and break you in! I'll bet Kentucky cocktails all round I shame it out of you, old son. Cheek me, I dare you. If you do tremble in anticipation of heel discipline to be inflicted in gym costume.
(Bloom creeps under the sofa and peers out through the fringe.
ZOE  She's not here.
BLOOM  She's not here.
FLORRY  She didn't mean it, Mr Bello. She'll be good, sir.
KITTY Don't be too hard on her, Mr Bello. Sure you won't, ma'amsir.
BELLO  Come, ducky dear. I want a word with you, darling, just to administer correction. Just a little heart to heart talk, sweety.  There's a good girly now.  I only want to correct you for your own good on a soft safe spot. How's that tender behind? O, ever so gently, pet. Begin to get ready.
BLOOM  Don't tear my.
BELLO  The nosering, the pliers, the bastinado, the hanging hook, the knout I'll make you kiss while the flutes play like the Nubian slave of old. You're in for it this time. I'll make you remember me for the balance of your natural life.  I shall sit on your ottoman saddleback every morning after my thumping good breakfast of Matterson's fat ham rashers and a bottle of Guinness's porter.  And suck my thumping good Stock Exchange cigar while I read the Licensed Victualler's Gazette. Very possibly I shall have you slaughtered and skewered in my stables and enjoy a slice Of you with crisp crackling from the baking tin basted and baked like sucking pig with rice and lemon or currant sauce. It will hurt you.
BLOOM Don't be cruel, nurse! Don't!
BELLO  Another!
BLOOM  O, it's hell itself! Every nerve in my body aches like mad!
BELLO  Good, by the rumping jumping general! That's the best bit of news I heard these six weeks. Here, don't keep me waiting, damn you. 
BLOOM  You're after hitting me. I'll tell...
BELLO Hold him down, girls, till I squat on him.
ZOE Yes. Walk on him! I will.
FLORRY I will. Don't be greedy.
KITTY No, me. Lend him to me.
MRS KEOCH  Can I help? 
BELLO  I see Keating Clay is elected chairman of the Richmond Asylum and bytheby Guinness's preference shares are at sixteen three quarters. Curse me for a fool that I didn't buy that lot Craig and Gardner told me about. Just my infernal luck, curse it. And that Goddamned outsider Throwaway at twenty to one.  Where's that Goddamned cursed ashtray?
BLOOM  O! O! Monsters! Cruel one!
BELLO Ask for that every ten minutes. Beg, pray for it as you never prayed before.  Here, kiss that. Both. Kiss.  Gee up! A cockhorse to Banbury cross. I'll ride him for the Eclipse stakes.  Ho! off we pop! I'll nurse you in proper fashion.  The lady goes a pace a pace and the coachman goes a trot a trot and the gentleman goes a gallop a gallop a gallop a gallop.
FLORRY  Let me on him now. You had enough. I asked before you.
ZOE  Me. Me. Are you not finished with him yet, suckeress?
BLOOM  Can't.
BELLO Well, I'm not. Wait.  Curse it. Here. This bung's about burst.  Take that!  Yes, by Jingo, sixteen three quarters.
BLOOM  Not man.  Woman.
BELLO  No more blow hot and cold. What you longed for has come to pass. Henceforth you are unmanned and mine in earnest, a thing under the yoke. Now for your punishment frock. You will shed your male garments, you understand, Ruby Cohen? and don the shot silk luxuriously rustling over head and shoulders and quickly too.
BLOOM  Silk, mistress said! O crinkly! scrapy! Must I tip-touch it with my nails?
BELLO  As they are now, so will you be, wigged, singed, perfumesprayed, ricepowdered, with smoothshaven armpits. Tape measurements will be taken next your skin. You will be laced with cruel force into vicelike corsets of soft dove coutille, with whalebone busk, to the diamond trimmed pelvis, the absolute outside edge, while your figure, plumper than when at large, will be restrained in nettight frocks, pretty two ounce petticoats and fringes and things stamped, of course, with my houseflag, creations of lovely lingerie for Alice and nice scent for Alice. Alice will feel the pullpull. Martha and Mary will be a little chilly at first in such delicate thighcasing but the frilly flimsiness of lace round your bare knees will remind you...
BLOOM  I tried her things on only once, a small prank, in Holles street. When we were hardup I washed them to save the laundry bill. My own shirts I turned. It was the purest thrift.
BELLO  Little jobs that make mother pleased, eh! and showed off coquettishly in your domino at the mirror behind close-drawn blinds your unskirted thighs and hegoat's udders, in various poses of surrender, eh? Ho! Ho! I have to laugh! That secondhand black operatop shift and short trunk leg naughties all split up the stitches at her last rape that Mrs Miriam Dandrade sold you from the Shelbourne Hotel, eh?
BLOOM Miriam, Black. Demimondaine.
BELLO  Christ Almighty, it's too tickling, this! You were a nicelooking Miriam when you clipped off your backgate hairs and lay swooning in the thing across the bed as Mrs Dandrade, about to be violated by Lieutenant Smythe Smythe, Mr Philip Augustus Blockwell, M.P., Signor Laci Daremo, the robust tenor, blueeyed Bert, the liftboy, Henry Fleury of Gordon Bennett fame, Sheridan, the quadroon Cr&Aelig;sus, the varsity wetbob eight from old Trinity, Ponto, her splendid Newfoundland and Bobs, dowager duchess of Manorhamilton.  Christ, wouldn't it make a Siamese cat laugh?
BLOOM  It was Gerald converted me to be a true corsetlover when I was female impersonator in the High School play Vice Versa. It was dear Gerald. He got that kink, fascinated by sister's stays. Now dearest Gerald uses pinky greasepaint and gilds his eyelids. Cult of the beautiful.
BELLO  Beautiful! Give us a breather! When you took your seat with womanish care, lifting your billowy flounces, on the smoothworn throne.
BLOOM Science. To compare the various joys we each enjoy.  And really it's better the position... because often I used to wet.
BELLO  No insubordination. The sawdust is there in the corner for you. I gave you strict instructions, didn't I? Do it standing, sir! I'll teach you to behave like a jinkleman! If I catch a trace on your swaddles. Aha! By the ass of the Dorans you'll find I'm a martinet. The sins of your past are rising against you. Many. Hundreds.
THE SINS OF THE PAST  He went through a form of clandestine marriage with at least one woman in the shadow of the Black Church. Unspeakable messages he telephoned mentally to Miss Dunn at an address in d'Olier Street while he presented himself indecently to the instrument in the callbox. By word and deed he encouraged a nocturnal strumpet to deposit fecal and other matter in an unsanitary outhouse attached to empty premises. In five public conveniences he wrote pencilled messages offering his nuptial partner to all strongmembered males. And by the offensively smelling vitriol works did he not pass night after night by loving courting couples to see if and what and how much he could see? Did he not lie in bed, the gross boar, gloating over a nauseous fragment of wellused toilet paper presented to him by a nasty harlot, stimulated by gingerbread and a postal order?
BELLO  Say! What was the most revolting piece of obscenity in all your career of crime? Go the whole hog. Puke it out. Be candid for once.
BLOOM Don't ask me. Our mutual faith. Pleasants street. I only thought the half of the... I swear on my sacred oath...
BELLO  Answer. Repugnant wretch! I insist on knowing. Tell me something to amuse me, smut or a bloody good-ghoststory or a line of poetry, quick, quick, quick! Where? How? What time? With how many? I give you just three seconds. One! Two! Thr... !
BLOOM  I rererepugnosed in rerererepugnant...
BELLO  O get out, you skunk! Hold your tongue! Speak when you're spoken to.
BLOOM  Master! Mistress! Mantamer!
BELLO  By day you will souse and bat our smelling underclothes, also when we ladies are unwell, and swab out our latrines with dress pinned up and a dishclout tied to your tail. Won't that be nice?  And there now! With this ring I thee own. Say, thank you, mistress.
BLOOM Thank you, mistress.
BELLO You will make the beds, get my tub ready, empty the pisspots in the different rooms, including old Mrs Keogh's the cook's, a sandy one. Ay, and rinse the seven of them well, mind, or lap it up like champagne. Drink me piping hot. Hop! you will dance attendance or I'll lecture you on your misdeeds, Miss Ruby, and spank your bare bot right well, miss, with the hairbrush. You'll be taught the error of your ways. At night your wellcreamed braceleted hands will wear fortythreebutton gloves newpowdered with talc and having delicately scented fingertips. For such favours knights of old laid down their lives.  My boys will be no end charmed to see you so ladylike, the colonel, above all. When they come here the night before the wedding to fondle my new attraction in gilded heels. First, I'll have a go at you myself. A man I know on the turf named Charles Alberta Marsh  is on the lookout for a maid of all work at a short knock. Swell the bust. Smile. Droop shoulders. What offers?  For that lot trained by owner to fetch and carry, basket in mouth.  There's fine depth for you! What, boys? That give you a hardon?  Here, wet the deck and wipe it round!
A BIDDER A florin!
A VOICE One and eightpence too much.
THE LACQUEY Barang!
CHARLES ALBERTA MARSH Must be virgin. Good breath. Clean.
BELLO  Two bar. Rockbottom figure and cheap at the price. Fourteen hands high. Touch and examine his points. Handle him. This downy skin, these soft muscles, this tender flesh. If I had only my gold piercer here! And quite easy to milk. Three newlaid gallons a day. A pure stock getter, due to lay within the hour. His sire's milk record was a thousand gallons of whole milk in forty weeks. Whoa, my jewel! Beg up! Whoa!  So! Warranted Cohen! What advance on two bob, gentlemen?
A DARKVISAGED MAN  Hoondert punt sterlink.
VOICES  For the Caliph Haroun Al Raschid.
BELLO  Right. Let them all come. The scanty, daringly short skirt, riding up at the knee to show a peep of white pantalette, is a potent weapon and transparent stockings, emeraldgartered, with the long straight seam trailing up beyond the knee, appeal to the better instincts of the blasé man about town. Learn the smooth mincing walk on four inch Louis XV heels, the Grecian bend with provoking croup, the thighs fluescent, knees modestly kissing. Bring all your power of fascination to bear on them. Pander to their Gomorrahan vices.
BLOOM  O, I know what you're hinting at now.
BELLO What else are you good for, an impotent thing like you?  Up! Up! Manx cat! What have we here? Where's your curly teapot gone to or who docked it on you, cockyolly? Sing, birdy, sing. It's as limp as a boy of six's doing his pooly behind a cart. Buy a bucket or sell your pump.  Can you do a man's job?
BLOOM Eccles Street.
BELLO  I wouldn't hurt your feelings for the world but there's a man of brawn in possession there. The tables are turned, my gay young fellow! He is something like a fullgrown outdoor man. Well for you, you muff, if you had that weapon with knobs and lumps and warts all over it. He shot his bolt, I can tell you! Foot to foot, knee to knee, belly to belly, bubs to breast! He's no eunuch. A shock of red hair he has sticking out of him behind like a furzebush! Wait for nine months, my lad! Holy ginger, it's kicking and coughing up and down in her guts already! That makes you wild, don't it? Touches the spot?  Spittoon!
BLOOM I was indecently treated, I... inform the police. Hundred pounds. Unmentionable. I.
BELLO Would if you could, lame duck. A downpour we want, not your drizzle.
BLOOM To drive me mad! Moll! I forgot! Forgive! Moll!... We... Still...
BELLO  No, Leopold Bloom, all is changed by woman's will since you slept horizontal in Sleepy Hollow your night of twenty years. Return and see.
SLEEPY HOLLOW Rip Van Winkle! Rip Van Winkle!
BLOOM  I see her! It's she! The first night at Mat Dillon's! But that dress, the green! And her hair is dyed gold and he.
BELLO  That's your daughter, you owl, with a Mullingar student.
MILLY My! It's Papli! But. O Papli, how old you've grown!
BELLO Changed, eh? Our whatnot, our writing table where we never wrote, Aunt Hegarty's armchair, our classic reprints of old masters. A man and his men friends are living there in clover. The Cuckoos' Rest! Why not? How many women had you, say? Following them up dark streets, flatfoot, exciting them by your smothered grunts. What, you male prostitute? Blameless dames with parcels of groceries. Turn about. Sauce for the goose, my gander, O.
BLOOM They... I
BELLO  Their heelmarks will stamp the Brusselette carpet you bought at Wren's auction. In their horseplay with Moll the romp to find the buck flea in her breeches they will deface the little statue you carried home in the rain for art for art's sake. They will violate the secrets of your bottom drawer. Pages will be torn from your handbook of astronomy to make them pipespills. And they will spit in your ten shilling brass fender from Hampton Leedom's.
BLOOM Ten and six. The act of low scoundrels. Let me go. I will return. I will prove...
A VOICE Swear!
BELLO As a paying guest or a kept man? Too late. You have made your secondbest bed and others must lie in it. Your epitaph is written. You are down and out and don't you forget it, old bean.
BLOOM Justice! All Ireland versus one! Has nobody... ?
BELLO Die and be damned to you if you have any sense of decency or grace about you. I can give you a rare old wine that'll send you skipping to hell and back. Sign a will and leave us any coin you have. If you have none see you damn well get it, steal it, rob it! We'll bury you in our shrubbery jakes where you'll be dead and dirty with old Cuck Cohen, my stepnephew I married, the bloody old gouty procurator and sodomite with a crick in his neck, and my other ten or eleven husbands, what ever the buggers' names were, suffocated in the one cess pool.  We'll manure you, Mr Flower!  Byby, Poldy! Byby, Papli!
BLOOM  My will power! Memory! I have sinned! I have suff... 
BELLO  Crybabby! Crocodile tears!
THE CIRCUMCISED  Shema Israel Adonai Elohenu Adonai Echad.
VOICES  So he's gone. Ah, yes. Yes, indeed. Bloom? Never heard of him. No? Queer kind of chap. There's the widow. That so? Ah, yes.
THE YEWS  Sister. Our sister. Ssh.
THE NYMPH  Mortal!  Nay, dost not weepest!
BLOOM  This position. I felt it was expected of me. Force of habit.
THE NYMPH Mortal! You found me in evil company, high kickers, coster picnic makers, pugilists, popular generals, immoral panto boys in flesh tights and the nifty shimmy dancers, La Aurora and Karini, musical act, the hit of the century. I was hidden in cheap pink paper that smelt of rock oil. I was surrounded by the stale smut of clubmen, stories to disturb callow youth, ads for transparencies, truedup dice and bustpads, proprietary articles and why wear a truss with testimonial from ruptured gentleman. Useful hints to the married.
BLOOM  We have met before. On another star.
THE NYMPH  Rubber goods. Neverrip. Brand as sup plied to the aristocracy. Corsets for men. I cure fits or money refunded. Unsolicited testimonials for Professor Waldmann's wonderful chest exuber. My bust developed four inches in three weeks, reports Mrs Gus Rublin with photo.
BLOOM You mean Photo Bits?
THE NYMPH I do. You bore me away, framed me in oak and tinsel, set me above your marriage couch. Unseen, one summer eve, you kissed me in four places. And with loving pencil you shaded my eyes, my bosom and my shame.
BLOOM  Your classic curves, beautiful immortal. I was glad to look on you, to praise you, a thing of beauty, almost to pray.
THE NYMPH During dark nights I heard your praise.
BLOOM  Yes, yes. You mean that I... Sleep reveals the worst side of everyone, children perhaps excepted. I know I fell out of my bed or rather was pushed. Steel wine is said to cure snoring. For the rest there is that English invention, pamphlet of which I received some days ago, incorrectly addressed. It claims to afford a noiseless inoffensive vent.  'Twas ever thus. Frailty, thy name is marriage.
THE NYMPH  And words. They are not in my dictionary.
BLOOM You understood them?
THE YEWS Ssh.
THE NYMPH  What have I not seen in that chamber? What must my eyes look down on?
BLOOM  I know. Soiled personal linen, wrong side up with care. The quoits are loose. From Gibraltar by long sea, long ago.
THE NYMPH  Worse! Worse!
BLOOM  That antiquated commode. It wasn't her weight. She scaled just eleven stone nine. She put on nine pounds after weaning. It was a crack and want of glue. Eh? And that absurd orangekeyed utensil which has only one handle.
THE WATERFALL
Poulaphouca Poulaphouca
Poulaphouca Poulaphouca.
THE YEWS  Listen. Whisper. She is right, our sister. We grew by Poulaphouca waterfall. We gave shade on languorous summer days.
JOHN WYSE NOLAN  Prosper! Give shade on languorous days, trees of Ireland!
THE YEWS  Who came to Poulaphouca with the high school excursion? Who left his nutquesting classmates to seek our shade?
BLOOM  I was in my teens, a growing boy. A little then sufficed, a jolting car, the mingling odours of the ladies' cloakroom and lavatory, the throng penned tight on the old Royal stairs, for they love crushes, instincts of the herd, and the dark sexsmelling theatre unbridles vice. Even a pricelist of their hosiery. And then the heat. There were sunspots that summer. End of school. And tipsycake. Halcyon days.
THE HALCYON DAYS Mackerel! Live us again. Hurray!
BLOOM  Again! I feel sixteen! What a lark! Let's ring all the bells in Montague Street.  Hurray for the High School!
THE ECHO Fool!
THE YEWS  She is right, our sister. Whisper.  Who profaned our silent shade?
THE NYMPH  There! In the open air?
THE YEWS  Sister, yes. And on our virgin sward.
THE WATERFALL
Poulaphouca Poulaphouca
Phoucaphouca Phoucaphouca.
THE NYMPH  O! Infamy!
BLOOM I was precocious. Youth. The fauns. I sacrificed to the god of the forest. The flowers that bloom in the spring. It was pairing time. Capillary attraction is a natural phenomenon. Lotty Clarke, flaxenhaired, I saw at her night toilette through ill-closed curtains, with poor papa's operaglasses. The wanton ate grass wildly. She rolled downhill at Rialto Bridge to tempt me with her flow of animal spirits. She climbed their crooked tree and I... A saint couldn't resist it. The demon possessed me. Besides, who saw?
STAGGERING BOB Me. Me see.
BLOOM Simply satisfying a need.  No girl would when I went girling. Too ugly. They wouldn't play.
THE NANNYGOAT  Megegaggegg! Nannannanny!
BLOOM  Regularly engaged. Circumstances alter cases.  Thirtytwo head over heels per second. Press nightmare. Giddy Elijah. Fall from cliff. Sad end of government printer's clerk. 
THE DUMMYMUMMY Bbbbblllllbbblblodschbg?
COUNCILLOR NANNETI  When my country takes her place among the nations of the earth, then, and not till then let my epitaph be written. I have...
BLOOM Done. Prff.
THE NYMPH  We immortals, as you saw today, have not such a place and no hair there either. We are stonecold and pure. We eat electric light.  Spoke to me. Heard from behind. How then could you... ?
BLOOM  O, I have been a perfect pig. Enemas too I have administered. One third of a pint of quassia, to which add a tablespoonful of rocksalt. Up the fundament. With Hamilton Long's syringe, the ladies' friend.
THE NYMPH In my presence. The powderpuff.  And the rest.
BLOOM  Yes. Peccavi! I have paid homage on that living altar where the back changes name.  For why should the dainty scented jewelled hand, the hand that rules... ?
THE VOICE OF KITTY  Show us one of them cushions.
THE VOICE OF FLORRY Here.
THE VOICE OF LYNCH  Whew! Piping hot!
THE VOICE OF ZOE  Came from a hot place.
THE VOICE OF VIRAG  Hot! Hot! Ware Sitting Bull!
BLOOM It overpowers me. The warm impress of her warm form. Even to sit where a woman has sat, especially with divaricated thighs, as though to grant the last favours, most especially with previously well uplifted white sateen coatpans. So womanly full. It fills me full.
THE WATERFALL
Phillaphulla Poulaphouca
Poulaphouca Poulaphouca.
THE YEWS Ssh! Sister, speak!
THE NYMPH  Tranquilia convent. Sister Agatha. Mount Carmel, the apparitions of Knock and Lourdes. No more desire.  Only the ethereal. Where dreamy creamy gull waves o'er the waters dull.
THE BUTTON Bip!
THE SLUTS
O Leopold lost the pin of his drawers
He didn't know what to do,
To keep it up,
To keep it up.
BLOOM  You have broken the spell. The last straw. If there were only ethereal where would you all be, postulants and novices? Shy but willing, like an ass pissing.
THE YEWS  Deciduously!
THE NYMPH Sacrilege! To attempt my virtue!  Sully my innocence! You are not fit to touch the garment of a pure woman.  Wait, Satan. You'll sing no more lovesongs. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen.  Nekum!
BLOOM  Hoy! Nebrakada! Cat of nine lives! Fair play, madam. No pruning knife. The fox and the grapes, is it? What do we lack with your barbed wire? Crucifix not thick enough?  A holy abbot you want or Brophy, the lame gardener, or the spoutless statue of the watercarrier or good Mother Alphonsus, eh Reynard?
THE NYMPH  Poli... !
BLOOM  As if you didn't get it on the double yourselves. No jerks and multiple mucosities all over you. I tried it. Your strength our weakness. What's our stud fee? What will you pay on the nail? You fee men dancers on the Riviera, I read.  Eh! I have sixteen years of black slave labour behind me. And would a jury give me five shillings alimony tomorrow, eh? Fool someone else, not me.  But. Onions. Stale. Sulphur. Grease.
BELLA You'll know me the next time.
BLOOM  Passée. Mutton dressed as lamb. Lone in the tooth and superfluous hairs. A raw onion the last thing at night would benefit your complexion. And take some double chin drill. Your eyes are as vapid as the glass eyes of your stuffed fox. They have the dimensions of your other features, that's all. I'm not a triple screw propeller.
BELLA  You're not game, in fact.  Fohracht!
BLOOM  Clean your nailless middle finger first, the cold spunk of your bully is dripping from your cockscomb. Take a handful of hay and wipe yourself.
BELLA I know you, canvasser! Dead cod!
BLOOM I saw him, kipkeeper! Pox and gleet vendor!
BELLA  Which of you was playing the dead march from Saul?
ZOE Me. Mind your cornflowers.  The cat's ramble through the slag.  Eh? Who's making love to my sweeties?  What's yours is mine and what's mine is my own.
BLOOM  Give me back that potato, will you? Zoe Forfeits, a fine thing and a superfine thing.
BLOOM  It is nothing, but still a relic of poor mamma.
ZOE
Give a thing and take it back
God'll ask you where is that
You'll say you don't know
God'll send you down below.
BLOOM There is a memory attached to it. I should like to have it.
STEPHEN To have or not to have, that is the question.
ZOE Here.  Those that hides knows where to find.
BELLA  Here. This isn't a musical peepshow. And don't you smash that piano. Who's paying here?
STEPHEN  This silken purse I made out of the sow's ear of the public. Madam, excuse me. If you allow me.  We are all in the same sweepstake, Kinch and Lynch. Dans ce bordel où tenons nostre état.
LYNCH  Dedalus! Give her your blessing for me.
STEPHEN  Gold. She has it.
BELLA  Do you want three girls? It's ten shillings here.
STEPHEN  A hundred thousand apologies.  Permit, brevi manu, my sight is somewhat troubled.
FLORRY  Ow! My foot's asleep. 
BELLA, ZOE. KITTY, LYNCH, BLOOM  The gentleman... ten shillings... paying for the three allow me a moment... this gentleman pays separate who's touching it?... ow... mind who you're pinching... are you staying the night or a short time? who did?... you're a liar, excuse me... the gentle man paid down like a gentleman... drink... it's long after eleven.
STEPHEN  No bottles! What, eleven? A riddle.
ZOE  Hard earned on the flat of my back.
LYNCH  Come!
KITTY Wait. 
FLORRY And me?
LYNCH Hoopla! 
STEPHEN The fox crew, the cocks flew, The bells in heaven Were striking eleven. 'Tis time for her poor soul To get out of heaven.
BLOOM  So. Allow me.  Three times ten. We're square.
BELLA  You're such a slyboots, old cocky. I could kiss you.
ZOE  Hum? Deep as a drawwell. 
BLOOM This is yours.
STEPHEN How is that? Le distrait or absentminded beggar.  That fell.
BLOOM  This.
STEPHEN Lucifer. Thanks.
BLOOM  You had better hand over that cash to me to take care of. Why pay more?
STEPHEN  Be just before you are generous.
BLOOM I will but is it wise?  One, seven, eleven, and five. Six. Eleven. I don't answer for what you may have lost.
STEPHEN Why striking eleven? Proparoxyton. Moment before the next Lessing says. Thirsty fox.  Burying his grandmother. Probably he killed her.
BLOOM That is one pound six and eleven. One pound seven, say.
STEPHEN Doesn't matter a rambling damn.
BLOOM No, but...
STEPHEN  Cigarette, please.  And so Georgina Johnson is dead and married.  Wonder. Parlour magic. Married. Hm. 
LYNCH  You would have a better chance of lighting it if you held the match nearer.
STEPHEN  Lynx eye. Must get glasses. Broke them yesterday. Sixteen years ago. Distance. The eye sees all flat.  Brain thinks. Near: far. Ineluctable modality of the visible.  Hm. Sphinx. The beast that has two backs at midnight. Married.
ZOE It was a commercial traveller married her and took her away with him.
FLORRY  Mr Lambe from London.
STEPHEN Lamb of London, who takest away the sins of our world.
LYNCH  Dona nobis pacem. 
BLOOM Don't smoke. You ought to eat. Cursed dog I met.  You have nothing?
ZOE Is he hungry?
STEPHEN 
Hangende Hunger,
Fragende Frau,
Macht uns alle kaput.
ZOE  Hamlet, I am thy father's gimlet!  Blue eyed beauty, I'll read your hand.  No wit, no wrinkles.  Two, three, Mars, that's courage.  No kid.
LYNCH Sheet lightning courage. The youth who could not shiver and shake.  Who taught you palmistry?
ZOE  Ask my ballocks that I haven't got.  I see it in your face. The eye, like that. 
LYNCH  Like that. Pandy bat.
FATHER DOLAN Any boy want flogging? Broke his glasses? Lazy idle little schemer. See it in your eye.
DON JOHN CONMEE Now, Father Dolan! Now. I'm sure that Stephen is a very good little boy.
ZOE  Woman's hand.
STEPHEN  Continue. Lie. Hold me. Caress. I never could read His handwriting except His criminal thumbprint on the haddock.
ZOE What day were you born?
STEPHEN Thursday. Today.
ZOE Thursday's child has far to go.  Line of fate. Influential friends.
FLORRY  Imagination.
ZOE Mount of the moon. You'll meet with a...  I won't tell you what's not good for you. Or do you want to know?
BLOOM  More harm than good. Here. Read mine.
BELLA Show.  I thought so. Knobby knuckles, for the women.
ZOE  Gridiron. Travels beyond the sea and marry money.
BLOOM Wrong.
ZOE  O, I see. Short little finger. Henpecked husband. That wrong?
BLACK LIZ Gara. Klook. Klook. Klook.
BLOOM  That weal there is an accident. Fell and cut it twenty-two years ago. I was sixteen.
ZOE I see, says the blind man. Tell us news.
STEPHEN See? Moves to one great goal. I am twenty two too. Sixteen years ago I twentytwo tumbled, twentytwo years ago he sixteen fell off his hobbyhorse.  Hurt my hand somewhere. Must see a dentist. Money?
FLORRY What?
THE BOOTS  Haw, haw, have you the horn?
ZOE  Whisper.
LENEHAN Ho! What do I here behold? Were you brushing the cobwebs off a few quims?
BOYLAN  Plucking a turkey.
LENEHAN A good night's work.
BOYLAN  Blazes Kate! Up to sample or your money back.  Smell that.
LENEHAN  Ah! Lobster and mayonnaise. Ah!
ZOE AND FLORRY  Ha ha ha ha.
BOYLAN bumps surely from the car and calls loudly for all to hear. ) Hello, Bloom! Mrs Bloom up yet?
BLOOM  I'm afraid not, sir, the last articles...
BOYLAN  Here, to buy yourself a gin and splash.  Show me in. I have a little private business with your wife. You understand?
BLOOM Thank you, sir. Yes, sir, Madam Tweedy is in her bath, sir.
MARION He ought to feel himself highly honoured.  Raoul, darling, come and dry me. I'm in my pelt. Only my new hat and a carriage sponge.
BOYLAN  Topping!
BELLA What? What is it?
MARION Let him look, the pishogue! Pimp! And scourge himself! I'll write to a powerful prostitute or Bartholomona, the bearded woman, to raise weals out on him an inch thick and make him bring me back a signed and stamped receipt.
BELLA  Ho ho ho ho.
BOYLAN  You can apply your eye to the keyhole and play with yourself while I just go through her a few times.
BLOOM Thank you, sir, I will, sir. May I bring two men chums to witness the deed and take a snapshot?  Vaseline, sir? Orangeflower?... Lukewarm water?...
KITTY  Tell us, Florry. Tell us. What.
MINA KENNEDY  O, it must be like the scent of geraniums and lovely peaches! O, he simply idolises every bit of her! Stuck together! Covered with kisses!
LYDIA DOUCE  Yumyum. O, he's carrying her round the room doing it! Ride a cock horse. You could hear them in Paris and New York. Like mouthfuls of strawberries and cream.
KITTY  Hee hee hee.
BOYLAN'S VOICE  Ah! Gooblazqruk brukarchkrasht!
MARION'S VOICE  O! Weeshwashtkissima, pooisthnapoohuck!
BLOOM  Show! Hide! Show! Plough her! More! Shoot!
BELLA, ZOE, FLORRY. KITTY Ho ho! Ha ha! Hee hee!
LYNCH  The mirror up to nature.  Hu hu hu hu hu hu.
SHAKESPEARE  'Tis the loud laugh bespeaks the vacant mind.  Thou thoughtest as how thou wastest invisible. Gaze.  Iagogo! How my Oldfellow chokit his Thursdaymomun. Iagogogo!
BLOOM  When will I hear the joke?
ZOE Before you're twice married and once a widower.
BLOOM Lapses are condoned. Even the great Napoleon, when measurements were taken near the skin after his death...
FREDDY Ah, ma, you're dragging me along!
SUSY Mamma, the beeftea is fizzing over!
SHAKESPEARE  Weda seca whokilla farst.
MRS CUNNINGHAM  And they call me the jewel of Asia.
MARTIN CUNNINGHAM
 Immense! Most bloody awful demirep!
STEPHEN Et exaltabuntur cornua iusti. Queens lay with prize bulls. Remember Pasiphae for whose lust my grandoldgross father made the first confessionbox. Forget not Madam Grissel Steevens nor the suine scions of the house of Lambert. And Noah was drunk with wine. And his ark was open.
BELLA None of that here. Come to the wrong shop.
LYNCH Let him alone. He's back from Paris.
ZOE  O go on! Give us some parleyvoo.
LYNCH  Rmm Rmm Rmm Rrr rrrmmmmm.
STEPHEN  Thousand places of entertainment to expenses your evenings with lovely ladies saling gloves and other things perhaps her heart beerchops perfect fashionable house very eccentric where lots cocottes beautiful dressed much about princesses like are dancing cancan and walking there parisian clowneries extra foolish for bachelors foreigns the same if talking a poor english how much smart they are on things love and sensations voluptuous. Misters very selects for is pleasure must to visit heaven and hell show with mortuary candles and they tears silver which occur every night. Perfectly shocking terrific of religion's things mockery seen in universal world. All chic womans which arrive full of modesty then disrobe and squeal loud to see vampire man debauch nun very fresh young with dessous troublants.  Ho, la la! Ce pif qu'il a!
LYNCH Vive le vampire!
THE WHORES Bravo! Parleyvoo!
STEPHEN  Great success of laughing. Angels much prostitutes like and holy apostles big damn ruffians. Demimondaines nicely handsome sparkling of diamonds very amiable cos turned. Or do you are fond better what belongs they moderns pleasure turpitude of old mans?  Caoutchouc statue woman reversible or lifesize tompeeptoms virgins nudities very lesbic the kiss five ten times. Enter gentlemen to see in mirrors every positions trapezes all that machine there besides also if desire act awfully bestial butcher's boy pollutes in warm veal liver or omelette on the belly pièce de Shakespeare.
BELLA  An omelette on the... Ho! ho! ho! ho!... Omelette on the...
STEPHEN  I love you, Sir darling. Speak you englishman tongue for double entente cordiale. O yes, mon loup. How much cost? Waterloo. Watercloset. 
BELLA  Omelette...
THE WHORES  Encore! Encore!
STEPHEN Mark me. I dreamt of a watermelon.
ZOE Go abroad and love a foreign lady.
LYNCH Across the world for a wife.
FLORRY Dreams go by contraries.
STEPHEN  It was here. Street of harlots. In Serpentine Avenue Beelzebub showed me her, a fubsy widow. Where's the red carpet spread?
BLOOM  Look.
STEPHEN No, I flew. My foes beneath me. And ever shall be. World without end.  Pater! Free!
BLOOM I say, look...
STEPHEN Break my spirit, will he? O merde alors!  Hola! Hillyho!
SIMON That's all right.  Ho, boy! Are you going to win? Hoop! Pschatt! Stable with those halfcastes. Wouldn't let them within the bawl of an ass. Head up! Keep our flag flying! An eagle gules volant in a field argent displayed. Ulster king at arms! hai hoop!  Bulbul! Burblblbrurblbl! Hai, boy!
THE CROWD
Card of the races. Racing card!
Ten to one the field!
Tommy on the clay here!
Tommy on the clay!
Ten to one bar one.
Ten to one bar one.
Try your luck on spinning Jenny!
Ten to one bar one!
Sell the monkey, boys!
Sell the monkey!
I'll give ten to one!
Ten to one bar one!
THE ORANGE LODGES  Get down and push, mister. Last lap! You'll be home the night!
GARRETT DEASY  Per vias rectas!
THE GREEN LODGES Soft day, sir John! Soft day, your honour!
STEPHEN Hark! Our friend, noise in the street!
ZOE  Stop!
PRIVATE CARR, PRIVATE COMPTON and CISSY CAFFREY
Yet I've a sort a
Yorkshire relish for...
ZOE That's me.  Dance! Dance!  Who has twopence?
BLOOM Who'll.
LYNCH  Here.
STEPHEN  Quick! Quick! Where's my augur's rod? 
ZOE  There.
ZOE  Dance. Anybody here for there? Who'll dance?
MAGINNI The poetry of motion, art of callisthenics. No connection with Madam Legget Byrne's or Levinstone's. Fancy dress balls arranged. Deportment. The Katty Lanner steps. So. Watch me! My terpsichorean abilities.  Tout le monde an avant! Révérence! Tout le monde en place!
THE PIANOLA Two young fellows were talking about their girls, girls, girls, Sweethearts they'd left behind.
MAGINNI  Carré! Avant deux! Breathe evenly! Balance!
HOURS You may touch my.
CAVALIERS May I touch your?
HOURS O, but lightly!
CAVALIERS O, so lightly!
THE PIANOLA My little shy little lass has a waist.
MAGINNI Avant! huit! Traversé! Salut! Cours de mains! Croisé!
THE BRACELETS Heigho! Heigho!
ZOE  O!
MAGINNI Los tiroirs! Chaîne de dames! La corbeille! Dos à dos!
ZOE I'm giddy.
MAGINNI Boulangère! Los ronds! Los ponts! Chevaux de bois! Escargots!
MAGINNI Dansez avec vos dames! Changes de dames! Donnes le petit bouquet a votre dame! Remerciez!
THE PIANOLA
Best, best of all,
Baraabum!
KITTY  O, they played that on the hobbyhorses at the Mirus bazaar!
THE PIANOLA My girl's a Yorkshire girl.
ZOE Yorkshire through and through. Come on all!
STEPHEN Pas seul!
THE PIANOLA
Though she's a factory lass
And wears no fancy clothes.
TUTTI Encore! Bis! Bravo! Encore!
SIMON Think of your mother's people!
STEPHEN Dance of death.
STEPHEN Ho!
THE CHOIR
Liliata rutilantium te confessorum...
Iubilantium te virginum...
BUCK MULLIGAN She's beastly dead. The pity of it! Mulligan meets the afflicted mother.  Mercurial Malachi.
THE MOTHER  I was once the beautiful May Goulding. I am dead.
STEPHEN  Lemur, who are you? What bogey man's trick is this?
BUCK MULLIGAN  The mockery of it! Kinch killed her dogsbody bitchbody. She kicked the bucket.  Our great sweet mother! Epi oinopa ponton.
THE MOTHER  All must go through it, Stephen. More women than men in the world. You too. Time will come.
STEPHEN  They said I killed you, mother. He offended your memory. Cancer did it, not I. Destiny.
THE MOTHER  You sang that song to me. Love's bitter mystery.
STEPHEN  Tell me the word, mother, if you know now. The word known to all men.
THE MOTHER Who saved you the night you jumped into the train at Dalkey with Paddy Lee? Who had pity for you when you were sad among the strangers? Prayer is all powerful. Prayer for the suffering souls in the Ursuline manual, and forty days' indulgence. Repent, Stephen.
STEPHEN The ghoul! Hyena!
THE MOTHER I pray for you in my other world. Get Dilly to make you that boiled rice every night after your brain work. Years and years I loved you, O my son, my firstborn, when you lay in my womb.
ZOE  I'm melting!
FLORRY  Look! He's white.
BLOOM  Giddy.
THE MOTHER  Repent! O, the fire of hell!
STEPHEN  The corpsechewer! Raw head and bloody bones!
THE MOTHER  Beware!  Beware! God's hand! 
STEPHEN  Shite! 
BLOOM  What?
STEPHEN Ah non, par exemple! The intellectual imagination! With me all or not at all. Non serviam!
FLORRY Give him some cold water. Wait. 
THE MOTHER  O Sacred Heart of Jesus, have mercy on him! Save him from hell, O divine Sacred Heart!
STEPHEN No! No! No! Break my spirit all of you if you can! I'll bring you all to heel!
THE MOTHER  Have mercy on Stephen, Lord, for my sake! Inexpressible was my anguish when expiring with love, grief and agony on Mount Calvary.
STEPHEN Nothung!
THE GASJET Pwfungg!
BLOOM Stop!
LYNCH  Here! Hold on! Don't run amok!
BELLA Police!
BELLA  After him!
THE WHORES  Down there.
ZOE  There. There's something up.
BELLA Who pays for the lamp?  There. You were with him. The lamp's broken.
BLOOM  What lamp, woman?
A WHORE He tore his coat.
BELLA  Who's to pay for that? Ten Shillings. You're a witness.
BLOOM  Me? Ten shillings? Haven't you lifted enough off him? Didn't he...
BELLA  Here, none of your tall talk. This isn't a brothel. A ten shilling house.
BLOOM  Only the chimney's broken. Here is all he...
BELLA  Jesus! Don't!
BLOOM  To show you how he hit the paper. There's not a sixpenceworth of damage done. Ten shillings!
FLORRY  Where is he?
BELLA Do you want me to call the police?
BLOOM O, I know. Bulldog on the premises. But he's a Trinity student. Patrons of your establishment. Gentlemen that pay the rent.  Know what I mean? Nephew of the vice-chancellor. You don't want a scandal.
BELLA  Trinity! Coming down here ragging after the boat races and paying nothing. Are you my commander here? Where is he? I'll charge him. Disgrace him, I will.  Zoe! Zoe!
BLOOM  And if it were your own son in Oxford!  I know.
BELLA  Who are you incog?
ZOE  There's a row on.
BLOOM What? Where?  That's for the chimney. Where? I need mountain air. (He hurries out through the hall. The whores point. Florry follows, spilling water from her tilted tumbler. On the doorstep all the whores clustered talk volubly, pointing to the right where the fog has cleared off From the left arrives a jingling hackney car. It slows to in front of the house. Bloom at the halldoor perceives Corny Kelleher who is about to dismount from the car with two silent lechers. He averts his face. Bella from within the hall uses on her whores. They blow ickylickysticky yumyum kisses. Corny Kelleher replies with a ghostly lewd smile. The silent lechers turn to pay the jarvey. Zoe and Kitty still point right. Bloom, parting them swiftly, draws his caliph's hood and poncho and hurries down the steps with sideways face. Incog Haroun al Baschid, he flits behind the silent lechers and hastens on by the railings with fleet step of a pard strewing the drag behind him, torn envelopes drenched in aniseed. The ashplant marks his stride. A pack of bloodhounds, led by Hornblower of Trinity brandishing a dogwhip in tallyho cap and an old pair of grey trousers, follows from far, picking up the scent, nearer, baying, panting, at fault, breaking away, throwing their tongues, biting his heels, leaping at his tail. He walks, runs, zigzags, gallops, lugs laid back. He is pelted with gravel, cabbagestumps, biscuitboxes, eggs, potatoes, dead codfish, womans slipperslappers. After him, freshfound, the hue and cry zigzag gallops in hot pursuit of follow my leader: 65 C 66 C night watch, John Henry Menton, Wisdom Hely, V.B. Dillon, Councillor Nannetti, Alexander Keyes, Larry O'Rourke, Joe Cuffe, Mrs O'Dowd Pisser Burke, The Nameless One, Mrs Riordan, The Citizen, Garryowen, Whatdoyoucallhim, Strangeface, Fellowthatslike, Sawhimbefore, Chapwith, Chris Callinan, sir Charles Cameron, Benjamin Dollard, Lenehan, Bartell d'Arcy, Joe Hynes, red Murray, editor Brayden, T.M. Healy, Mr Justice Fitzgibbon, John Howard Parnell, the reverend Tinned Salmon, Professor Joly, Mrs Breen, Denis Breen, Theodore Purefoy, Mina Purefoy, the Westland Row postmistress, C.P. M'Coy, friend of Lyons, Hoppy Holohan, man in the street, other man in the street, Footballboots, pugnosed driver rich protestant lady, Davy Byrne, Mrs Ellen M'Guinness, Mrs Joe Gallaher George Lidwell, Jimmy Henry on corns, Superintendent Laracy, Father Cowley, Crofton out of the Collector Generals, Dan Dawson, dental surgeon Bloom with tweezers, Mrs Bob Doran, Mrs Kennefick, Mrs Wyse Nolan, John Wyse Nolan, handsomemamedwomanrubbed againstwidebehindinClonskeatram, the bookseller of Sweets of Sin, Miss Dubedatandshedidbedad, Mesdames Gerald and Stanislaus Moran of Roebuck, the managing clerk of Drimmies colonel Hayes, Mastiansky, Citron, Penrose, Aaron Figatner, Moses Herzog, Michael E. Geraghty, Inspector Troy, Mrs Galbraith, the constable off Eccles Street corner old doctor Brady with stethoscope, the mystery man on the beach, a retriever Mrs Miriam Dandrade and all her lovers.
THE HUE AND CRY  He's Bloom! Stop Bloom! Stopabloom! Stopperrobber! Hi! Hi! Stop him on the corner!
STEPHEN  You are my guests. The uninvited. By virtue of the fifth of George and seventh of Edward. History to blame. Fabled by mothers of memory.
PRIVATE CARR  Was he insulting you?
STEPHEN Addressed her in vocative feminine. Probably neuter. Ungenitive.
VOICES No, he didn't. The girl's telling lies. He was in Mrs Cohen's. What's up? Soldiers and civilians.
CISSY CAFFREY I was in company with the soldiers and they left me to do - you know and the young man ran up behind me. But I'm faithful to the man that's treating me though I'm only a shilling whore.
STEPHEN  Hail, Sisyphus.  Poetic. Neopoetic.
VOICES She's faithfultheman.
CISSY CAFFREY Yes, to go with him. And me with a soldier friend.
PRIVATE COMPTON He doesn't half want a thick ear, the blighter. Biff him one, Harry.
PRIVATE CARR  Was he insulting you while me and him was having a piss?
LORD TENNYSON  Their's not to reason why.
PRIVATE COMPTON Biff him, Harry.
STEPHEN  I don't know your name but you are quite right. Doctor Swift says one man in armour will beat ten men in their shirts. Shirt is synechdoche. Part for the whole.
CISSY CAFFREY  No, I was with the private.
STEPHEN  Why not? The bold soldier boy. In my opinion every lady for example...
PRIVATE CARR  Say, how would it be, governor, if I was to bash in your jaw?
STEPHEN  How? Very unpleasant. Noble art of self-pretence. Personally, I detest action.  Hand hurts me slightly. Enfin, ce sont vos oignons.
 Some trouble is on here. What is it, precisely?
DOLLY GRAY  Rahab. Cook's son, goodbye. Safe home to Dolly. Dream of the girl you left behind and she will dream of you.
BLOOM  Come now, professor, that carman is waiting.
STEPHEN  Eh?  Why should I not speak to him or to any human being who walks upright upon this oblate orange?  I'm not afraid of what I can talk to if I see his eye. Retaining the perpendicular.
BLOOM  Retain your own.
STEPHEN  My centre of gravity is displaced. I have forgotten the trick. Let us sit down somewhere and discuss. Struggle for life is the law of existence but modern philirenists, notably the tsar and the king of England, have invented arbitration.  But in here it is I must kill the priest and the king.
BIDDY THE CLAP Did you hear what the professor said? He's a professor out of the college.
CUNTY KATE I did. I heard that.
BIDDY THE CLAP He expresses himself with much marked refinement of phraseology.
CUNTY KATE Indeed, yes. And at the same time with such apposite trenchancy.
PRIVATE CARR  What's that you're saying about my king?
EDWARD THE SEVENTH  Peace, perfect peace. For identification bucket in my hand. Cheerio, boys.  We have come here to witness a clean straight fight and we heartily wish both men the best of good luck. Mahak makar a back.
PRIVATE CARR  Say it again.
STEPHEN  I understand your point of view, though I have no king myself for the moment. This is the age of patent medicine. A discussion is difficult down here. But this is the point. You die for your country, suppose.  Not that I wish it for you. But I say: Let my country die for me. Up to the present it has done so. I don't want it to die. Damn death. Long live life!
EDWARD THE SEVENTH 
My methods are new and are causing surprise.
To make the blind see I throw dust in their eyes.
STEPHEN Kings and unicorns!  Come somewhere and we'll... What was that girl saying?...
PRIVATE COMPTON Eh, Harry, give him a kick in the knackers. Stick one into Jerry.
BLOOM  He doesn't know what he's saying. Taking a little more than is good for him. Absinthe, the greeneyed monster. I know him. He's a gentleman, a poet. It's all right.
STEPHEN  Gentleman, patriot, scholar and judge of impostors.
PRIVATE CARR I don't give a bugger who he is. PRIVATE COMPTON We don't give a bugger who he is.
STEPHEN I seem to annoy them. Green rag to a bull.
KEVIN EGAN H'lo. Bonjour! The vieille ogresse with the dents jaunes.
PATRICE Socialiste!
DON EMILE PATRIZIO FRANZ RUPERT POPE HENNESSY  Were those eykes to footboden, big grand porcos of johnyellows todos covered of gravy!
BLOOM  Come home. You'll get into trouble.
STEPHEN  I don't avoid it. He provokes my intelligence.
BIDDY THE CLAP One immediately observes that he is of patrician lineage.
THE VIRAGO Green above the red, says he. Wolfe Tone.
THE BAWD The red's as good as the green, and better. Up the soldiers! Up King Edward!
A ROUGH  Ay! Hands up to De Wet.
THE CITIZEN 
May the God above
Send down a cove
With teeth as sharp as razors
To slit the throat
Of the English dogs
That hanged our Irish leaders.
THE CROPPY BOY 
I bear no hate to a living thing,
But love my country beyond the king.
RUMBOLD, DEMON BARBER  Ladies and gents, cleaver purchased by Mrs Pearcy to slay Mogg. Knife with which Voisin dismembered the wife of a compatriot and hid remains in a sheet in the cellar, the unfortunate female's throat being cut from ear to ear. Phial containing arsenic retrieved from the body of Miss Barrow which sent Seddon to the gallows.
THE CROPPY BOY Horhot ho hray ho rhother's hest.
RUMBOLD I'm near it myself.  Rope which hanged the awful rebel. Ten shillings a time as applied to His Royal Highness.  My painful duty has now been done. God save the king!
EDWARD THE SEVENTH 
On coronation day, on coronation day,
O, Won't We have a merry time,
Drinking whisky, beer and wine!
PRIVATE CARR Here. What are you saying about my king?
STEPHEN  O, this is too monotonous! Nothing. He wants my money and my life, though want must be his master, for some brutish empire of his. Money I haven't.  Gave it to someone.
PRIVATE CARR Who wants your bleeding money?
STEPHEN  Will some one tell me where I am least likely to meet these necessary evils? ça se voit aussi à Paris. Not that I... But by Saint Patrick!...
STEPHEN Aha! I know you, grammer! Hamlet, revenge! The old sow that eats her farrow!
OLD GUMMY GRANNY  Ireland's sweetheart, the king of Spain's daughter, alanna. Strangers in my house, bad manners to them!  Ochone! Ochone! Silk of the kine!  You met with poor old Ireland and how does she stand?
STEPHEN How do I stand you? The hat trick! Where's the third person of the Blessed Trinity? Soggarth Aroon? The reverend Carrion Crow.
CISSY CAFFREY  Stop them from fighting!
A ROUGH Our men retreated.
PRIVATE CARR  I'll wring the neck of any bugger says a word against my fucking king.
BLOOM  He said nothing. Not a word. A pure misunderstanding.
THE CITIZEN Erin go bragh!
PRIVATE COMPTON Go it, Harry. Do him one in the eye. He's a proboer.
STEPHEN Did I? When?
BLOOM  We fought for you in South Africa, Irish missile troops. Isn't that history? Royal Dublin Fusiliers. Honoured by our monarch.
THE NAVVY  O, yes. O, God, yes! O, make the kwawr a krowawr! O! Bo!
MAJOR TWEEDY  Rorke's Drift! Up, guards, and at them! Mahal shalal hashbaz.
PRIVATE CARR I'll do him in.
PRIVATE COMPTON  Fair play, here. Make a bleeding butcher's shop of the bugger.
CISSY CAFFREY They're going to fight. For me!
CUNTY KATE The brave and the fair.
BIDDY THE CLAP Methinks yon sable knight will joust it with the best.
CUNTY KATE  Nay, Madam. The gules doublet and merry Saint George for me!
STEPHEN The harlot's cry from street to street Shall weave old Ireland's windingsheet.
PRIVATE CARR  I'll wring the neck of any fucking bastard says a word against my bleeding fucking king.
BLOOM  Speak, you! Are you struck dumb? You are the link between nations and generations. Speak, woman, sacred lifegiver.
CISSY CAFFREY  Amn't I with you? Amn't I your girl? Cissy's your girl.  Police!
STEPHEN 
White thy fambles, red thy gan
And thy quarrons dainty is.
VOICES Police!
DISTANT VOICES Dublin's burning! Dublin's burning! On fire, on fire!
FATHER MALACHI O'FLYNN Introibo ad altare diaboli.
THE REVEREND MR HAINES LOVE To the devil which hath made glad my young days.
FATHER MALACHI O'FLYNN  Corpus Meum.
THE REVEREND MR HAINES LOVE  My body.
THE VOICE OF ALL THE DAMNED Htengier Tnetopinmo Dog Drol eht rot, Aiulella!
ADONAI Dooooooooooog!
THE VOICE OF ALL THE BLESSED Alleluia, for the Lord God Omnipotent reigneth!
ADONAI Goooooooooood!
PRIVATE CARR  I'll do him in, so help me fucking Christ! I'll wring the bastard fucker's bleeding blasted fucking windpipe!
OLD GUMMY GRANNY  Remove him, acushla. At 8.35 a.m. you will be in heaven and Ireland will be free.  O good God, take him!
BLOOM  Can't you get him away?
LYNCH He likes dialectic, the universal language. Kitty!  Get him away, you. He won't listen to me. 
STEPHEN  Exit Judas. Et laqueo se suspendit.
BLOOM  Come along with me now before worse happens. Here's your stick.
STEPHEN Stick, no. Reason. This feast of pure reason.
CISSY CAFFREY  Come on, you're boosed. He insulted me but I forgive him.  I forgive him for insulting me.
BLOOM  Yes, go. You see he's incapable.
PRIVATE CARR  I'll insult him.
MAJOR TWEEDY  Carbine in bucket! cease fire! Salute!
THE RETRIEVER  Ute ute ute ute ute ute uteute.
THE CROWD Let him up! Don't strike him when he's down! Air! Who? The soldier hit him. He's a professor. Is he hurted? Don't manhandle him! He's fainted!
What call had the redcoat to strike the gentleman and he under the influence? Let them go and fight the Boers!
THE BAWD Listen to who's talking! Hasn't the soldier a right to go with his girl? He gave him the coward's blow.
THE RETRIEVER  Wow wow wow.
BLOOM  Get back, stand back!
PRIVATE COMPTON  Here bugger off, Harry. There's the cops!
FIRST WATCH What's wrong here?
PRIVATE COMPTON We were with this lady and he insulted us and assaulted my chum.  Who owns the bleeding tyke?
CISSY CAFFREY  Is he bleeding?
A MAN  No. Gone off. He'll come to all right.
BLOOM  Leave him to me. I can easily...
SECOND WATCH Who are you? Do you know him?
PRIVATE CARR  He insulted my lady friend.
BLOOM  You hit him without provocation. I'm a witness. Constable, take his regimental number.
SECOND WATCH I don't want your instructions in the discharge of my duty. PRIVATE COMPTON  Here, bugger off, Harry. Or Bennett'll have you in the lockup.
PRIVATE CARR  God fuck old Bennett! He's a whitearsed bugger. I don't give a shit for him.
FIRST WATCH  What's his name?
BLOOM  I just see a car there. If you give me a hand a second, sergeant.
FIRST WATCH Name and address.
BLOOM  O, the very man!  Simon Dedalus' son. A bit sprung. Get those policemen to move those loafers back.
SECOND WATCH Night, Mr Kelleher.
CORNY KELLEHER  That's all right. I know him. Won a bit on the races. Gold cup. Throwaway.  Twenty to one. Do you follow me?
FIRST WATCH  Here, what are you all gaping at? Move on out of that.
CORNY KELLEHER Leave it to me, sergeant. That'll be all right.  We were often as bad ourselves, ay or worse. What? Eh, what?
FIRST WATCH  I suppose so.
CORNY KELLEHER  Come and wipe your name off the slate.  With my tooraloom tooraloom tooraloom tooraloom. What, eh, do you follow me?
SECOND WATCH  Ah, sure we were too.
CORNY KELLEHER  Boys will be boys. I've a car round there.
SECOND WATCH All right, Mr Kelleher. Good night.
CORNY KELLEHER I'll see to that.
BLOOM  Thank you very much gentlemen, thank you.  We don't want any scandal, you understand. Father is a well known, highly respected citizen. Just a little wild oats, you understand.
FIRST WATCH O, I understand, sir.
SECOND WATCH That's all right, Sir.
FIRST WATCH It was only in case of corporal injuries I'd have had to report it at the station.
BLOOM  Naturally. Quite right. Only your bounden duty.
SECOND WATCH It's our duty.
CORNY KELLEHER Good night, men.
THE WATCH  Night, gentlemen. 
BLOOM  Providential you came on the scene. You have a car?.
CORNY KELLEHER  Two commercials that were standing fizz in Jammet's. Like princes, faith. One of them lost two quid on the race. Drowning his grief and were on for a go with the jolly girls. So I landed them up on Behan's car and down to nighttown.
BLOOM I was just going home by Gardiner street when I happened to...
CORNY KELLEHER  Sure they wanted me to join in with the mots. No, by God, says I. Not for old stagers like myself and yourself.  Thanks be to God we have it in the house what, eh, do you follow me? Hah! hah! hah!
BLOOM  He, he, he! Yes. Matter of fact I was just visiting an old friend of mine there, Virag, you don't know him  and we had a liquor together and I was just making my way home...
THE HORSE Hohohohohohoh! Hohohohome!
CORNY KELLEHER Sure it was Behan, our jarvey there, that told me after we left the two commercials in Mrs Cohen's and I told him to pull up and got off to see.  Sober hearsedrivers a specialty. Will I give him a lift home? Where does he hang out? Somewhere in Cabra, what?
BLOOM No, in Sandycove, I believe, from what he let drop.
CORNY KELLEHER  Sandycove!  Eh!  Eh! He's covered with shavings anyhow. Take care they didn't lift anything off him.
BLOOM No, no, no. I have his money and his hat here and stick.
CORNY KELLEHER Ah well, he'll get over it. No bones broken. Well, I'll shove along.  I've a rendezvous in the morning. Burying the dead. Safe home!
THE HORSE  Hohohohohome.
BLOOM Good night. I'll just wait and take him along in a few...
CORNY KELLEHER  Night.
BLOOM Night.
BLOOM Eh! Ho!  Mr Dedalus!  The name if you call. Somnambulist.  Stephen!  Stephen!
STEPHEN  Who? Black panther vampire.  Who... drive... Fergus now. And pierce... wood's woven shade?...
BLOOM Poetry. Well educated. Pity.  To breathe.  One pound seven. Not hurt anyhow.  What!
... shadows... the woods
... white breast... dim...
BLOOM  Face reminds me of his poor mother. In the shady wood. The deep white breast. Ferguson, I think I caught. A girl. Some girl. Best thing could happen him... ... swear that I will always hail, ever conceal, never reveal, any part or parts, art or arts...  in the rough sands of the sea. a cabletow's length from the shore... where the tide ebbs ... and flows...
BLOOM  Rudy!
RUDY 