So water damage to your passport
So your canoe tipped over while you was paddlin'?
Or you was in upstate New York gettin' some white water raftin' in?
Well let's factor in the facts
There was a flood in your basement and it was too late for you to get a fuckin' replacement
You waited 24 hours to come up with a statement
Instead we comin' to London with no justification
Over a year for a title match, fans becomin' impatient, demandin' money back
King Fly refundin' the payments
And this your champ?
This who you got to take what it succeed?
Couldn't even protect the face on his passport and y'all let him be the face of the league
But I'm glad you made it my G
You got the photo on your passport booked right?
Okay cool, cause after duckin' me at Decade
{puts on a sweatshirt with a picture of Head ICE's passport on it}
This is probably exactly what it looks like
Don't choke
What's crackin' ICE?
Stab him twice, I hope Heaven can help ya
He'll find a blade in ICE temple like the Legend Of Zelda
I'm above the law of ICE, like a lemon and seltzer
Mask up, flame burnin', why mess with a welder
I felt the disrespect
Why you told Lux, "They like me."
Soundin' a little high brow, so I posted on IG
Kinda had the people's champ raisin' eyebrows
Like, "If ya "Sma-" y'all know the rest, yeah they like me
But they also played a big part in yo' success
THEY know I can finish a scheme cause they stop and listen
And with that shit you kick, shit I throw my pad in the crowd, arms in a cross position
I know you feelin' like your back's against the ropes
But by the time this 'rupt  and hit him
I'ma make it clear with the pen , that I got a leg up with the competition
Not to mention, you be actin' like I just be entertainin' whites
No offense but nobody think that shit you sayin' tight, my pen don't got no limitation
So to get the chain tonight, I'm eliminatin' ICE for more than immigration rights
But you live a gangsta's life
Y'all think his BS clever?
He told Bigg K, "Gun pokin' out the shirt like a nipple on a T-Rex sweater"
Oh that's that gangsta shit
I ain't even playin' around witchu
You told Real Deal, "I got shells the size of cow nipples"
Then you told Rone he had "cow titties"
But I'm 'posed to think this bully tough?
He got me standin' here feelin' like I need to zip my hoodie up
Cow titties my nigga?
I can't believe the shit he utter 
So for that, man I should take ya shorty and titty fuck her
Dark liquor got me feelin' like Papoose, I'm a Remy lover
Semi tucker, screamin' "Fuck the Wolves" I'm Jimmy Butler
I'm plenty gutter
Exit the whip or you'll be layin' in the projects
Get out that car mello  Anthony, I ain't playin' wit' them Rockets
I cock it, aim it and pop it
Start snipin' the lead wit' a bullet right in the head, goin' right in the head
You was writin' ahead
Kingpen, I write on ya head
What you writin' ahead?
Crazy, I ain't right in the head
But you gon' try to take my life 'til I'm dead
How so? Tell him try it
Like I've been on diet, the Cal's  low
You'll be paralyzed tryin' to battle like "Carry me out bro"
They bringin' Head back and forth to the ring like Al Snow
Now you know, bar for bar you can't hang wit' me
Thinkin' ICE sick'll  get him broken off for tryin' to hang wit' me
It's all the same shit you just talk and get hype G's
But tonight, try to be versatile with what you write, please
Maybe punch a lil' bit, tie in some nice schemes
Or rebuttal, that would be cold
But I don't think ICE free's 
See how well thought out that was?
That's why I'm a better artist than you
Cause I'm direct, keep takin' shots 'til my target is full
That fitted is fire, and them J's nice
Looks like you tryin' to market a Bull
The problem witchu bein' the champ ICE is you ain't marketable
The muhfuckin' Kingpen
Stop givin' him props, all hail, ICE fallin' to the Kingpen Of The Dot
And new!
They said Drake was supposed to be in the buildin', I wasn't surprised
Cause I'm his favorite in battle rap
Then I thought about it
Oh he out here to get 21 Savage back
ICE!
You say shit like, "If he don't write back. He can't get his rights back
The way he left, I should've known he wasn't comin' right back
But I kept it civil, cause in war, after that hit, the strike is right back
That's dead center, but the injury was to his right back."
And y'all like that?
That's why this the right match
Cause that punch was not for yo' eye
It's so you don't be surprised at the pressure that ICE pack
You stole my mojo and ran wit' it
Now you under constructions like a planned business
Stephan Curry in the pole I ain't Under Armor
And it'll push your tee  like a Drake diss if you come perform it nigga
For my Blood I'll Wack 100 and keep the Acura runnin'
For the chips and rings if that ain't the goal then  I'ma State who gon' be the last king comin'
Cause I'm draftin' somethin'
You ain't gon' know who from his sand dropped unless you use our  glasses for it
Who ya protection? Smack and them?
NWX and Rain?
I knew them niggas when they was young bucks
Tryin' to run behind Lux and them
A bunch of soft niggas frontin' for a bunch of soft niggas, that's why I don't fuck wit' them
You niggas get nervous when we around
Call people who tuck burners when we around
Only for your shooters to come shake my hand
And be like, "ICE. Just give us the word and we'll burn these niggas down."
Cause killers respect killers
And your scheme don't work here, take that scheme elsewhere
Or get dragged with a Canadian flag to a slab to get supreme healthcare
You tried to use the Wu against me, that's a good prop, Joe
But without the wire the Method is to kill those that try to go against me
All my , see now I shall lend  the Golden Arms after removin' prints 
My killer army  do exist
Board meetings, no croc or dial  and their gators like a Lacrosse t-shirt
I'm truly offended
Knowin' when I keep it too frank to lend, let's keep it a Benji
You don't keep it a hundred
You 10% of the cut after 10% of the cut, no breakdown
So I don't respect the shakedown unless Red Cafe and them comin'
I'm the young OG besides Fab' in the Maybach
I give credit where credit is due
But if your credit is due, I want nothin' but cash on the payback
I give a fuck if you pay loans on your vehicle after I tell my girl, "Loan me your vehicle."
Bullets flyin', towards Jones
The crime scene was so intense and loud
Your child tried to call police on a toy phone
But it was Pearl Harbor
Antonio Tarver, after those bombs landin' I Roy Jones
Junior keep your shoes tied
I won't get odd if you get even if you choose sides
I just find a space to eat him soon as the space between us like a moon pie
You had the nerve to speak on my ability
Like you royaled up
And you a fake diamond, Lil' Jon oil cup
Even ya bitch feel she too shiny for yo' ass so all you butt
Don't bring this pussy near me
Doin' battles in local community centers lookin' shook and scary
Ain't no justification if this hooker dare me
And I'm even takin' a pimp's cut over this vagina like the pussy hairy
Pussy hear me?
Yeah, try and 'ply, and I'ma show you what the mask for  after the Iron shot
They gon' say, "ICE hit him wit' a big 40 too ; Ronnie Lott"
Cause he was fakin' a facade with no burners on him
This nigga's 6'9", tryin' to put a 30 on a Chief then run to police and tell who he sent to do the murders for him
Rat! Rat!
6'9" was supposed to get outta jail when he was 69
But niggas ate wit' this pussy, cause he was suckin' dick to be down, that's what I hate about 69s
But he gon' get shot six or nine times with the six shooter
The .9, he gon' be six feet, his suit gin' be a nine piece, design
You think you suited for them?
Well your tailor port the cheap bottom
If I swing on you more than once the feet follow
You see Math and Hollow beefin' over two
But for six ounces I'll press you like a knock out punch from elite boxers, nigga
You throwin' jokes, Chappelle skits
I'm so deep in the smoke I'm tryin' to put .380 bullets in the .9, hopin' the shells fit
Ran outta .9 shells shootin' at another crack pusher
For tryin' to put my name in bottles to promote his cook up
But meet the kingpin  with no drugs charges
Who still got a Mexican watchin' over his sales like he drug smugglin'
Don't bring ya bitch around me
I'ma big dick nigga, I'ma want to see if she can test the water
And if she go off energy, then it's fuck yo' Infinity, just after I test love  offered
Man ICE and Chill a  cold combo
So the  pop from the freezer ain't a frozen bottle
You get instant cook
You'll have a gas livin' without a mention in our history books
Slow ya roll or get jack
We even removin' the car tire
We won't spare you either when a pair of Eagles rippin' into ya flesh over those bars for forgettin' the barb wire, nigga
This maximum pressure
Pen I tenture read  and discuss the murder behind glass to those who support the act like Bruce Willis
Die Hard why would you try God?
Even Nems tried to come to the stage deep like his pride was G
But saw the Mark in me wasn't nobody he could test like Saigon
I got a lotta cars I wanna get but I ain't goin' the Craig's way
Stand under the 50
It ain't Eminem and Curtis in the same frame
The stick still holdin' a nigga down with one foot in the game like a peg leg nigga
Oh I'm bound to get it
I have my wolves searchin' the ground even if it sound suspicious
So off of air they'll affect shins  even if you ain't down to kick it nigga
A nigga died over some twerk  it wasn't a Jersey murder
Forensics said all the bullets added up to a Karl Anthony Towns
But the shootin' was done by a Chauncey Billups jersey number
They-they-they ain't get that
That was hard
I don't like keepin' a secret with those I don't keep it at peace with
So if the deuce in the air, you already got dragged
And ain't nobody watchin' out for a race after the tires are screechin'
So what's up youngin'? You ain't old enough
That chip on ya shoulder ain't grow enough
By the time you fit the shoes, that riot gear gon' be old as fuck
So you out here givin' 'em light chills but in ICE grill you ain't cold enough, nigga
ICE!
So this ya London debut?
Don't make the same mistakes they do
Whoever told you to mention Big Ben and Princess Diana played you
But since it's ya first time in the UK I'ma save you
Get on my Big L and break down some London slang too
Example: they put tobacco in they blunts and they call it a "spliff"
A cookie's a "biscuit", French fries are "chips"
See they call a train a "tube", an elevator's a "lift"
And if you joke or disrespect then you "takin' a piss"
A house is a "flat" a store is a "shop"
Peep the lyrics, get it clear
See what we call liquor they call "spirits"
I just had to let you know from the jump, right out the gate
Shout out to Big L, for this big L you about to take
Who can stop ICE?
He stops lives in front of stop lights
Stop ICE
Cause you tried to battle Shotgun Suge and it got blocked twice
Not ICE!
Mr. I Control Everything
Arsonal offered you Suge, you said, "I don't know if they'll let me king."
Not ICE!
Mr. I Control Everything and rap raw
Claimin' Smack don't like you and URL got you blackballed
It's wack, see y'all don't even believe he can die in seconds
But he Will, all by himself, cause I Am Legend
But I'm 'posed to be the Wolf gang puck
Gettin' slapped around if I ever slide in ICE direction
Notice I said Wolfgang Puck, cause I got the skill it  take to cook
Y'all see me and Iron Chef'fin' out
Y'all was expectin' Pass, Deal, maybe Ward to put him right in his place
For those who say I lost my last fight, maybe that's why they put ICE in my face
Speakin' of losin' fights, what happened after them three rounds for Swave?
You dissed QB and them CT niggas came around your way
You got damn near slumped, they jumped you for like an hour straight
Then they put extra bodies on ICE, that was the power play
Shouts to Drake, cause he was out like a light uh
Like a light uh
Like a light 
Slept through the night
But when he woke up on the block man the knots was all over
Headshot so many fades, he reminded me of a barber shop poster
Oh you mad?
Not ICE?
Mr. I Control Everything, the thug hero
Who can't handle his emotions
Yeah I know who ya bug weirdo
See he just gotta hit his heart like Cupid with love's arrow
I'm just showin' y'all I control ICE I'm Sub-Zero
MK, MK
Say goodnight Wolf I'm winnin' live on cam' ain't no tellin' how this might look
Fuck a right hook, I run up on you wit' a tre squeezin'
Then BAOW, head in the clouds like he daydreamin'
Stay schemin', hand me the crown
This cat runnin' wit' wolves, this car'll  drive through Anthony Towns
Cause now he started drama
I'm not a boxer I brought a Llama
You wanna go around, when here come a round, just call it karma
I bring every target trauma
Grip and squirt, rip his shirt
Eliminating half ICE tee  like Arnold Palmer
But I'm calmer than most, not as friendly as I let on fam'
This battle, not the one that I would bet on fam'
ICE is the hostage, I wouldn't want to be Head on cam'
Isis, the hostage, wouldn't want to behead on cam'
Man, I'm the best at this
Who the "F" is this tryin' to compete wit' me? The Exorcist
What I possess will make Head do a 360
But let me flip that, get back
I snuck a black pistol in, the gat whistlin', with the Mag I'm magnificent
Catch him comin' outta his spot, the blast hittin' him
BAOW! I'm puttin' HEAD through the door I'm Jack Nicholson
Is y'all listenin'?
I'm blackin' out tryin' to show him to the light
He was jonesin' for a fight, now Jones in for the fight
They say, "Jones in for a fight"
And this is your Premier battle? You should've pulled a Cojay
You was better no-showin' on the mic 
It's alright...cause I'm nice
Stop givin' him props
All hail, ICE fallin' to the Kingpen Of The Dot
And new!
See that's how I know you're not thuggin' black
Try to bring up some street shit and you don't really want none of that
That'll get every blood cell in your mug a cap
You came to bring T pain ?
Well there was D for your L Shawty on the low , let's get it snappin'
You came to bring Toronto pain?
Well they was down for your loss shorty on the low, let's get it snappin'
Cause you actin'
And killers ain't for the rose unless gettin' napkins
What's happenin'?
First it's like, "ICE can't make a classic."
They sponged everything when he was bubbly
Now they tryin' to keep him underwater wit' Patrick
They why they gave Hollow Dizaster or Iron to Magic
And try to blind me wit' a Big T
But I was tall enough to see that he only agreed cause his Summer wasn't Madness
{Chokes}
Rone said ICE you cold but the top is colder
When you put on that chain you realize it ain't no snakes in the lane, but just a lane used for lots of vultures
And I thought the bird was pickin' at me
Cause all I saw was my shot from bein' trigger happy
But now I see what lies beneath
So if you create a Harriet Tubman scheme I could prolly tell you the rest of the way to go exactly
For example; I got trust issues
So you gotta make your wife suck my dick before I fuck witchu
We can run the train after
That's the scheme
Fuck you thought? I was on board to railroad my people? I'm the king, nigga
I don't think I got enough pistols
I thought you was gunnin' to be the man on URL but they let Roc launch and only the subs miss you
Bullets ain't got no name
But Jerome niece got a shooter
25 years after they the gun that match the slugs in her? Ain't that right?
Cause guess who got shot in the dome piece?
Jerome's niece on her way from Jones Beach
So stick to ya character part
If you draw that's amateur art
This .40 got 750 cocktail ingredients
A shot'll spill more liquid than you thought, nigga
Now look me in eyes and tell me you actually schemed on something
Hit the beam on somethin'
Scarred the op', then sent him back to warn the team you comin'
Never!
I was in Boston and watched your demeanor
I figured Chilla had the hoes in the spot I could stretch him
'Til some real niggas walked up and this turned into a hostages rescue
I'm lookin' at Chilla, he lookin' at the nigga who girl's he wit'
Then looked at me and I'm like, "If you gotta scheme to get outta this situation right now. I'm all the way in."
Long story short, they could've made a web series
Cause Boston baked beans, so frankly he ain't ready for this hot water cause he buns
So by the time he catch up  to this real live street shit
There'll be lead in him
BAOW! You hang with danger, but ain't prepared for danger
How ironic, cause I'm a livin' prophet and ya lime, light like gin and tonic
That type of doc will get you and your dawg  Pound for sellin' Chronic
After Math , shit got Shady for Slim
I backed out the .40 Loc
Under 50, under was 50 and took 80%
You young bucks wildin'
I had my hand over eyes before one 1000
Or red light, green light
No snow on the ground but when I sled my mask was ski tight
So if a Proving Ground or top tier nigga ask you "What ICE 'bout 'bout?" Just say "Master P type"
I'm in this for life
We past the three strikes
Plus move off principle, you outta class, you gotta ask to speak twice, nigga
I need more than love
The fiends I serve need more than drugs
That's dope, but throughout the dust, my .9 had to serve more than one
I knocked ya bitch down in room 5
Room 5 Ars'
And she told me he brought a band to hit her; Maroon 5
Two piece will only make ya manager be able to manage his raccoon eyes
You sincere and too kind
Even in jail I was gettin' my bread off of bottles out the water; moonshine
But now I'm fuckin' ya aunt
I gotta pump it louder, hood chick
Ya grandma owe me $350
But this ass whoopin' you takin' tonight is priceless
So I'ma look at that as some bullshit
And you don't want no smoke cause you cause you Black & Mild
That's why ya aunt gon' keep gettin' this wood tip
You can't get to a cannon  unless Ms. Gracie book 'em for a rap battle
With a face like that you can't even grill fight
Yo Chilla, you look so soft, you make a nigga wanna beat you up even more in a real fight
Look at him
Yeah, so next time y'all talk on the phone
Tell Surf I ain't puttin' not Titles on my Gun cause my hammers ain't stayin' good
And that freestyle wit' me, him and Lux
I almost got my gun dirty protectin' him and he can put that on his neighborhood
I'll put you under my wing then give you instructions
Then tell my wolf, "Take the picture and add the caption 'You can't touch him. He's one of ours.'"
So if you  son is ours
Or play under a rock with your name and birthday on it and I send you flowers
I'll point a rifle at your family tree, I want answers now
Or they gon' trap the dirt on this corn feel  when this banana clip knock the apples down
Mug shots, line ups, wanted posters
County time turn to state bids
Help me dodge that Fed case, now that warrants over
So know my mind is thinkin' of a chillin' getaway when I leave your corpse on the corner colder, nigga
They said, "Chilla gon' escape the paws."
I'm lookin' like, "I'm just trainin' my dogs."
The way Chubbs got
And still KOTD reppin' like the IG page that Dub's got
Yes, some of this battle rap money sponsor local neighborhood drug spots
But Chilla? Can't out bar me unless he club hop
The .9 clip shaped like Slinky
Another Twinkie in the glove box
Ain't no power when he right, he lacy
This counter punch is way the millions and the judge watch
Aye look, I gave the last Jones the Hawk but I miss my dawg  like X and Kato
I flip big H twice, every three days but for this bird you bought me to sell out?
I'ma need an extra day tho'
Round two and I already showed you niggas how to treat Chilla like a prostitute
And not give him his bag until he finish shakin' his leg like Zab after that jab from Kostya Tsyzu
That's why ya bitch won't neglect me
Cause I got her pumps like my bitch first Giuseppe
We ain't cool, you a Rubix Cube
That color on that block you choose can't connect me
But even if you turned sour
Gun powder
Paow, the shell will knock a turd out him
Gang affiliation jail like, "We never heard about him."
So his pride died when that flag tried to dry up the blood that earned around him
ICE!
Y'all remember a few minutes ago he was just chokin'?
And I told y'all to encourage him?
My only motive was helpin' to rap
It's ironic, his whole round was 'bout how I'm not in the street shit
But all it took was a hand gesture and I tell 'em how to clap
Aye the best Chilla we ever seen? Tough call
Every battle I raised the bar like a bench presser
The best Head we ever seen? Tough call
Teanna Trump, Gianna Michel, Karrine Steffans
You suck ICE, my whole class could school you
You ain't invincible but fuck that
See I ain't call Head "master"  off principle
We witnessed you, do nothin' wit' the chain
What has ICE accomplished, if there was anything, we'd be growin' like hydroponics
But let's be honest
I mean, we knew Rone was headed straight to BarStool
Plus they wanted an urban face as the champ, that played a part too
So yeah you the King Of The Dot but you really think they impartial?
They just really wanted a black on the throne like Meghan Markle
Don't be startled
Cause you lost a lot of battles, even the Los shit
Nems made it debatable, Bigg K smoked shit
And T ate yo' NY bars, that was the closest
A.N.T.H.O.N.Y. bars! Boy I'm the coldest
How I'm spellin' out ya government name and you ain't notice?
Boy I'm focused
When I'm gone I'll be missed in this profession
I got the imprint of a legend, we leave a difference and impression
But you remind 'em of they grandfather ICE
That's not an age joke, just listen to the reference
It's cause we only see you twice a year and all they get from you is presents 
But the lesson in these rounds, you can't call me "wack" boy I'm the Kingpen
It's time to show you why they call me that
Remember Lux lost the rematch to Mook? He was defeated and hopeless
Then my Daylyt battle dropped and in every tweet they would quote it
The War Report, they did a poll, thousands of people had voted
Guess who ranked the top pen? Me, all I did was find a scheme to promote it
So I screamed it in Prep's face, it hit the screen and exploded
Created a brand, sold merchandise, it was genius and golden
See you think every pen nigga wanna be Lux and that's why I'm unbelievably focused
Cause if you train to kill with one shot, then why the fuck would you need to be Loaded
And you can quote it
I'm the best pen ever
And I can say more but I'm just explainin' how I got my title before I take yours
And I'ma make sure, when it's all said and done I'm your favorite writer
If con  Artists look at me Crooked, I play conniver 
Left the Westside Gunn-er with five .9's , gave 'em fire
It's Bizarre, but I'll make you a yeller Wolf 
Ya life will end with an M-16  like a Shady cipher
Y'all say he nicer?
You should've put your check on ICE
Cause I'ma take the chain to make it reign 'til they check gone ICE
French toast, but I'ma use somethin' Czeck on ICE
Throw the stick across his chest, put a check on ICE
Stomp him out with a pair of Nikes, put a check on ICE
The .40 on chill so you don't gonna check on ICE
But while y'all check on ICE, aye Pass, quit with the act soldier
Said you killed me? Okay that's cool, well now I'm back colder
But I get it, in case I win you wanna bring that rematch closer
Thought you was gon' eat, well if 'Ganik say the word then Pass over 
Listen God, tell that Christian squad this is our lane
Yeah they reppin' IV, but this shit in our veins
I keep a stick for the beef, let that shish kabob bang
Ward gon' be a headless Horseman like Ichabod Crane
It's my chain, yeah I guess I'm a batch lighter
The gat fire, extended clip, got a three minute round, it's on a SMACK timer
Errr, off the back tires, hangin' out the Pathfinder
The ratchet makin' Head look bad, I call it "Blac Chyna"
The raps flier
Every punch is nuts; low blow
I'm at the gun store; dolo
Coppin' metal; Robo
Oohh, you a foe foe
Cool, I got a fo' fo' with somethin' scary at the end of this clip nigga; Momo
I know you wishin' this was promo, but you can dead that
There's a new champ in town and ICE gon' have to respect that
If not, it's gon' be a fair exchange when that TEC clap
Cause I'm sendin' ICE to the sky and makin' God send his cadet back
So step back
It's a wrap, stop givin' him props
All hail, ICE fallin' to the Kingpen Of The Dot
And new!
He said when his TEC clap
I'm not here to drag your name through the mug young buck
Ya glamour is perfect
But if you up here talkin' all this gangsta shit on how ya hammer is workin'
Don't be mad at me for not believin' you
Cause you the one that got they head blown when you saw that man in person
Yeah, I was in DC Fly, tokin'
But a lot of clips on me, stylin' out
Got a phone call, the next day I'm in Austin
With a Cannon bein' a Hitman, who Wild N Out?
Yo Ars', I saw Chilla on the corner schemin' and made a move around
Baow, shot once, I don't know if I hit or missed him, but I lose a round
Then I chased him, in the buildin' he usually around
It's still blood on the carpet in the apartment that his baby mother cousin usin' now
All I had to do was follow the drip, then his noggin' got hit
'Til his top tear  'til he was Proving Ground, nigga
You a mistake, you should've never got a date to make it out the hospital
If I was yo' father I'd have nutted in yo' mother face
Cause I know she can't stand the taste of seein' you grow to be a prostitute
What? You feelin' froggy then leap
Show the anger from it
But don't be surprised, when after that action
You wake up in the arm of Danja mother
Rest in peace to that lady, you know
You'll never make the cut that's why I'm addressin' you to lose this fake ass thug appearance
Cause every hustler wanna be ghost 'til them pigeons turn into a dove and you really gotta hug a spirit
I never heard your name mentioned in a war story, not even a little fight
So us keepin' it civil, cause I'm the only one who could assure Glory nigga
Every nigga in my circle the plug, we be in outlets like extension cords
Different stores
Pick it all, some even pimpin' whores
But I ain't no Trick, Daddy, 'I'm A Thug'
So if yo' bitch go M.I.A., by the time she go back to New York to take her shit, I'll be here to get my drugs
You the complexion that Charlemagne gon' end up lookin' like
If I tick it  gon' book ya flight
Cause a combination gon' knock today's lesson out his head like playin' hookey twice
You Arnold, I'm the Tookie type
Ya mission is to kill me, but I wrote the kids the book of life
So what you see is Blue, but these gon' get Mo' Better than Denzel and Spike
There's levels to this, but some admire the Ground is Proving
In his mind, he just jumped to top tier
'Til gravity pulled him back down
You stupid nigga
This useless, he wastin' our time
Me passin' Jones the torch, will only to find ancient shit in the mine 
Ya ink ain't for this design
That link could be your demise
Cause if I'm forced to grab the nose, it's gon' be uglier than a safety test for DUI
Save the jokes for April 1st, cause fuck is you smilin' about?
I'll put another smile in ya mouth
You'll get murdered by the youngin' in the backseat
Cause we know you a track meet if I'm standin' outside of yo' house
I'm that grimy
Stolen cars for the hit, no rats find me
The AK, gave him 47 holes out that MAC 90
Chilla better chill or be froze forever
Or his lost pose gonna be holdin' his holes together
Let's take it there, gun butt, breathe with blood in ya nasal hairs
Now you got less energy
And that thin ass sky blue vest tickle me
Cause you gon' get a headshot like the best Kennedy
Or get tied then die in a chair like the death penalty, nigga
It's in my genes, you know the deal
You get bodied, and God a witness to Biggie playin'
Then the Feds will realize it's a bigger unit behind this murder than Lenny Grant
You got app reminders
Ain't no juice in ya girl box unless she got apple cider
A wolf asks for steak meals, you brought me snakes and appetizers
So I ain't payin' for this bill unless the collector got battle raps behind it
Round three, and I already showed y'all how to treat Chilla like a prostitute
Cause ya flow borin', ya whole performance trash to me
My time kids get the punch the prom is over
Cause ya scheme is too dragged out like Cassidy
So eat a dick nigga you don't pop
You ain't never gon' be the king of King Of The Dot
BAOW
ICE nigga