From an unbiased standpoint, this album is a work of art whether you agree with the lifestyle or not that was led by Raekwon, Ghostface, other clansmen, and rappers now and then. I’m doing this thread in honor of the Purple Tape’s 21st anniversary. Even though you are legal drinking age, you helped popularize Cristal serves as the thesis of the album; that part of the movie where you see the title flash across the screen along with the actors' names
“Knuckleheadz” is where the album kicks into gear and witness U-God drop one of his best verses
“Knowledge God” slows things down a bit with the coldest of that Luca Brasi scene in Godfather I. This is the calm before the storm known as
“Criminology”. This would be the first full gun battle if it were a movie and Ghost drops my favorite verse from him of all time. Next we get into
“Incarcerated Scarfaces” which is one of the few standalone Rae tracks. Those snares cut like a sword. Clean production right here and dope rhymes
“Rainy Dayz” is where we find Ghost expressing the lows of the drug game, whereas Rae raps of a better tomorrow and brighter days. Truly a dope track
Things lighten up a bit on “Guillotine Swordz”, a total bar-fest which Oktoberfest would envy. Deck and GZA drop some of their best lines on this Wu-Classic banger. If it was a movie, this would be a massacre of a scene more bloody than Sonny Corleone’s car
“Can It Be All So Simple ” starts with a knucklehead serving on Ghosts turf and things escalate with gunfire and Ghost is hit. Rapped about in his verse, or a similar incident. This is probably more violent than the original but is a classic remix nonetheless
In “Shark Niggas ,” the two touch on the golden rule of No Biting. Here we learn that not only lines and rhymes can be bitten, but also album covers
Smooth transition to “Ice Water” where for many is probably the first time hearing Cappadonna on wax. I really wish I could’ve heard U-God over this beat
Next, we have “Glaciers Of Ice” starting with Ghost talking about this skill of dying Clark Wallabees which we seen in his Ironman cover. The beat eases in and the Chef cooks things up before Ghost and Masta Killa add that flavor and serve the track nice over a beat similar to Guillotine Swordz. Another one of those gun battle scenes I previously mentioned
Next is the rare jewel known as “Verbal Intercourse” which brings Nas fresh off Illmatic acclaim, and is the only non-Wu feature of not only this album but in the Wu’s career so far. A truly great honor, just like the verse Nas drops what many believe to be one of the greatest guest verses of all time. Ghost verse laced with prison-narrative is on par as well
On “Wisdom Body” we have Ghost solo spitting his game to a fine young lady. This track as most likely intended to appeal to the ladies, but still fits on the album. Every made-man needs his lady
“Spot Rushez” we find Rae and Ghost in the beginning feeling like some shit is gonna go down. As we progress through the track with Rae rhyming solo and plotting a heist casing the place, getting details and finally moving on with the robbery
“Ice Cream” is the party before the big showdown and what a party it is. Here we have Meth on the memorable hook and Cappadonna delivering another standout verse along with Rae and Ghost. Definitely a nice track for the summer
And finally the epic showdown rises with “Wu-Gambinos”. This serves as the epic climax we’ve been waiting for. In the beginning, we hear various clansmen getting prepared and Meth doing a rally call for each. After Meth’s chant, he goes in ripping shit followed by Rae. Afterwards, the man behind the production and sound, RZA drops probably my favorite on the song. With a slick transition comes Masta Killa shooting shit up laying down even more foes before passing the chrome to Ghost so he can sweep the shit clean. This is my favorite song on the album
Next, “Heaven and Hell” which serves as the ending, Rae and Ghost look back on some of the good and bad, and those that were lost throughout the journey. The beat sets the mood well
Last, is “North Star ,” which serves as the credit roll. Here we have Papa Wu dropping jewels and reminiscing on when Rae was growing up. We find Rae rapping alone of an incident of a man killing his homie’s wife and Rae himself seeks revenge while in the middle of a recoding with RZA who disagrees on retaliation but Rae handles his business anyway. After more words from Papa Wu, the album comes to an end. Indeed a cinematic experience in audio form
TL;DR – The album is a cinematic experience in audio form. The album has a thesis, introduction, body, climax, and ending. I had to write this to celebrate my favorite album’s anniversary
HAPPY 21st Anniversary OB4CL!!!!!!!