Pardon me.  Can I have a word with you for a few minutes?
Sit down, get comfortable
Uhhh, how long have we known each other? About 10 months? Yeah I think its, yeah. You and John are real tight aren’t ya?
Yeah.  Oh is that an engagement ring?
Awww, congratulations
Oh he slipped it on your finger last night huh?
He’s the luckiest man in the world, you know, he should be real proud to have someone like you
Oh yeah, umm, what I wanted to talk to you about is, well, there is something that has been bugging me for about 5 months and I’ve been carrying it around with me and it’s getting heavier and heavier everyday…
And, uh, yeah it’s almost to the boiling point and I have to get it off my chest
Yeah, I’m not trying to be fresh or anything, because I know you're John’s girl, but I just have to tell you this
You see I have a great deal of respect for you…I’m not being, you know, not going left field on you …but dig
You see I’m gonna take you back to my childhood for a minute….We had quite a big family and we weren’t very rich, sometimes we lived from day-to-day
But one thing we did do was go to church every Sunday.  Mama took us to church, and I was in the choir too, hey yeah I sang a little bit in Sunday school
She taught us the golden rules, the 10 commandments, and she said, “Son do onto others as you have them do onto you”, she said “Don’t steal” “Don’t rob” You know all the things good parents try to instil into their children
Well you know I did a few little things like shoot hook, I guess every kid shoots hooky at least once
And umm, she said “Stay out of trouble” You know when I was a teenager I didn’t break in, burglarize, or rob anybody
I tried to work for what I got, you know, tried to be honest.  Didn’t commit no crimes or nothing, but you know I had to wait,  huh ’til I reached manhood to commit a crime, according to the court of love, if there is such a court
But you know….sometimes you’re forced into things like this, see sometimes Cupid can shoot his arrow so fast you can’t get out the way, you know?
And you can fall and the more you, it’s like being in quicksand too, the more you wiggle the deeper you sink
I’m not gonna take up too much of your time, you see I’m not very good with words and I had to tell you all of that, so I can really say what I got to say
See there is a lot of talk going around town that I’m on the make for John’s girl, “Ike’s on the make for John’s girl”.  I don’t mean to do anybody wrong because I wouldn’t want anybody to bother anything that belongs to me
But you see I’ve never seen anybody like you, I’ve never known anybody like you, and there’s some things you just can’t help.  At night I toss and turn, I try to keep it out my mind but you see….I find myself thinking about you
I just can’t help it, and right now……
I stand accused
Of lovin' you too much
And I hope, I hope it's not a crime
'Cause if it is, I'm guilty
Of lovin' you, you, you
I, I hope to God
That I never have, oh, to testify
'Cause if I do
Everyone is gonna, they're gonna cry
They're gonna say
Old Ike is guilty
Of lovin' a sweet girl like you
I know, I know
You belong to another
I, I may not stand a ghost of a chance
I'll stand on top of Mount Everest
And proudly tell the world that I love ya
Oh yes, I will
Because I, I just can't
I can't help myself
I'm a victim of circumstance
And just one
Ooh, one touch of your hand
I don't know how it happened
But just look at me
I find myself chillin'
On the witness stand
And I'm shoutin' out
All over, all over the land
Everybody, I'm guilty
I'm guilty of lovin', lovin' you
I'm guilty of lovin' you
I said, I'm guilty
But what can I do?
I wanna hold ya
I wanna squeeze ya tight
But my mind said
She belong to another
And that ain't right
...
I didn't ask to fall in love with you
I just couldn't help myself
And now I'm strung out
Don't know what to do, no, no, no
I'm guilty
Of lovin' you
Oh yeah, I'm guilty, of lovin' you
I'm not ashamed to say I love you, I love you, I love you
I can't help but, I just can't help but.. love you
And I'm guilty baby
Oh I'm guilty
I know you belong to another
But I can't help, I can't help but love you
Oh yes I do
I stand accused of loving you
Baby, baby, baby
Please, can't you understand, the situation that I'm in
That's ~a~ one side of love, man