Joe:
All a heart needs is a beat of its own
All a king needs is a crown and a throne
The kid on the street needs a place called home
While you look satisfied with that app in your phone
A swear word hurts like a hurt man swears
Lately I feel a need to fucking disappear
While you get busy cheering for the songs you never hear
On my way to the top all I need is the stairs
Another rhyme to reminisce about the hard times
Reality is nice till it hits you like a punchline
Overdue debts got you lining up to pay the fine
If I don't speak the truth feel free to pay no mind
I ain't taking a break I'm staying awake smoking a flake I'm rolling a J making my way double the pay I'm trouble for
You don't get in my way
I did a double time Cizz just the way you asked for and its about time we get a bigger cash vault
Cizzy:
অন্তঃসারশূণ্য কিছু মিথ্যা বড়াই, করতে আসিনি আজ
লড়তে এসেছি লড়াই।
যতই জড়াই নিজেকে মায়াজালে, সব বাধা পার করে চড়াই উতরাই পেরিয়ে
আজ এসেছি গাইতে প্রতিবাদের গান।
আজ পৃথিবী তে নেই প্রতিবাদের দাম।
বিদ্রোহি আজ, আমি প্রতিবাদী আজ, একদিন শেষ করে দেবো দুর্নীতিরাজ।
তাও জানি একদিন শেষ হবে এই অন্ধকার রাত, হবে নতুন প্রভাত
সেদিনের স্বপ্ন দেখি দিন আর রাত আমি ভুলতে পারি না মা বোন দের  অপমান।
চারিদিকে শুনি হাহাকার, দেখে শুধু কাঁদে প্রান আমার।
মানুষের মুখোশ পরে এ সমাজে ঘুরে বেড়ায় কতো দুপেয়ে জানোয়ার।
যদি তুমি জানতে চাও আবার, কেন এত মাথাব্যথা শুধু আমার
এ পৃথিবীর প্রতিটি ধুলোকণা আমার জীবনের পাওনাদার।
চিত্ত ভয়শূন্য তাই করি অঙ্গীকার।
প্রতিবাদ শুরু আজ, with this Kolkata Cypher
Hardknok:
I'm the reason my city has bragging rights
My adam's apple has ammo for dragon fights
I'm mad precise and appatize on a rappers vice who think they dominate...
But ain't half as nice!
The right conscience don't suffice for in shit storms
So I air out on mic'phones, gimme a psych-loan!
Get hyped for too long or think you too strong?
Now hold on a sec... What delusion is you on?
The skin tone don't match my ebonic intones
Maybe I got a reverse MJ syndrome!
We on no less than chaos & turbulence
Turn tables make you adore the odds we working with
Even the bitch who's running my city admittedly feeling me
Begging me to be her dark twisted fantasy
Call the number Miss Banerjee, I'm not hung on humanity
We can try bestiality
Let go of reality
Make it part of a gallery
Of a city in shambles
Kolkata is back! Hold Hip Hop responsible!
Feyago:
I remember back in the day
All these kids used to play
Now they're on their iPhones
Playing video games
Mom and dad gotta pay
Coz the kids down the way
They the same - don't let the pain drive you insane
Coz - love is another word often mistaken with concern
We live in one world, we still got so much to learn
And our problems the same
Coz we after the fame
Ain't no rules to this game
Fifteen minutes for each name
Get a brand new house and a brand new car
And a brand new life and a brand new wife
Quit being so naive, quit being so nice
There's monsters in your eyes
Someone realize
We got all these fuckin' fools
Making all these fuckin' rules
Pick and choose -  put on your dancing shoes
Another brand new house and a brand new car
And a brand new life and a brand new wife
Quit being so naive, quit being so nice
There's monsters in your eyes
Someone realize
We got all these fuckin' fools
Making all these fuckin' rules
Pick and choose -  put on your dancing shoes
Philip:
What you think of me is for yourself so hold your thought
Or you'll be leaving here without a nose like voldemort
You're stuck to your limits bro your simile's old
My flow's too flexible like Emily Rose
I'm a rap addict why to pop pills when I got the whole alphabet
I don't lack in shit brown dudes can rap and this is what an example is, get on a track and spit a habit like a butcher
Just hacked a pig with similar tacts of rationalist stab a psycho a call it an accident
I never get high I'm one of a kind just like a lonely star
I ain't that fly I'm down to earth cause I got a homely heart that's seen more threats than Tony Stark's
Always on the move like Tony Hawk
Got my rhymes in a Samsung if you think that's dumb just call them phoney bars
Talk of the devil you see him appear your mind is the medicine heart is the lure I wanna shine like Edison but I ain't
Never been given the credits my name is of worth
I know what lame is and how to differ but keeping it plain is what I prefer how cool can it be when you smoking some
Weed brain fried with the heat is not what you deserve
Harsha:
The illest rhymer this side of the prime meridian
Just killing time tryna find me a line to live within
For a little while,and then I’m back to surviving
As my brittle mind develops cracks deep inside it
But even with hairlines under my hairline, I’m never dull
I’ve got spare rhymes that tear eyes right up outta the skulls
I could write about some gulls, and still be better than you
The essence of this message is you can’t kill this veteran dude
Lettered in two languages, fettering you in bandages
Threatening you evangelists, it’s better if you abandon ship
The Flying Dutchman on the oceans of rap
Giving you a fighting chance,what kinda notion is that?
Cos I’m atrocious with rap,I get abundant applause
And I’m understating things when I say you have hundreds of flaws
While you’re a blunder of God I spit those thunderous bars
That leave asunder the jaws of the crowd in wonder and awe
Even when I mumble I’m raw, while you sound like a wreck, awfulness
My rhymes’ll turn your hometown to a necropolis
While you clowns get cacophonous, to sound less monotonous
This crowned vet of rottenness will drown threats in bottomless pits
A nautilus shits bricks kinda depth, your mind is left blind and deaf
I'm adept at rhyming best, climbing steps; I invest
Time and stress till Simon says 'I'm impressed'
A-List:
First Bangalore, then Bombay, next Delhi
Understand the flow, who was the best? Tell me
Was it the west? Well, see, what you expressed was vast
But we saved the best for last
So respect the blast as you cover your eyes
As I suffer the lies of suckers who strive
To cover up time, claim to hustle and grind
Your only real struggle is the struggle to rhyme
Everyone's a pioneer, just a bunch of gimmicks kid
Fuck who started the scene, let's see who finishes
I hear the weak chatter when this man speak
But I gotta eat rappers 'coz they banned beef
Show some heart son, what's the hating about?
I got a sharp tongue, born with a blade in the mouth
Bunch of misogynists I'm exhausted with
Battle a homophobic rappper, give him box of dicks
Give him box of dicks
Give him box of dicks
Fuck Misogynists
Give him box of dicks
Don't need pen and pad for the suckers
Ashwini Mishra, sanskrit for Bad Motherfucker