Love me just for me.  Love me just for me
Love me just for me.  Love me just for me
Love me just for me.  Love me just for me
Love me just for me.  Love me just for me
Sitting here all alone
Wondering why you're not at home
Isn't it what have I done
What have I done?
I'm trying so hard to please you, girl
I'm trying to get inside your world
Can't you see you're all I need
Your love is what I need
The kind of love that'll always be special
 Forever and ever for the rest of our lives
My heart is yearning for a love that's tender
Love me just for me over and over again
Remember baby, you said we'd go
Time to let our feelings show
Let me in, you said to me
That's what you said to me
Your lies became a crying shame
A search for wealth, fortune and fame
This day I can't fulfill your needs
Love wasn't what you were looking for
 Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah
The kind of love that'll always be special
 Forever and ever and ever
Oooh, oooh, oooh, oooh, oooh, oooh
My heart is yearning for a love that's tender
Love me just for me over and over and over and over and over again
 I said baby, baby, could you care
Could you care  for me  every minute, every hour
Come on.   Come on, say you love me
Say that you love me.  Just say that you need me
 I'm not gonna leave you, I'm not gonna go
No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no
I had a girl, but all she seemed to care about was materialistic things
Yeah, I know what you mean
It wasn't like you couldn't give it to her, but that was all she wanted
Well, I'll keep searching this big old world until I find my lucky star
And when I do, I'll ask her to love me just for me
Ahhh, ah, ahhhhhhhh.  
Hey, eh, eh, eh, eh, eh, eh, eh, uh.  
Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, uh
Oh, oh, oh, uh, uhhh...Would you love me
 Oooh, oooh, oooh, oooh, oooh
 Love me
 It gotta be only me
You got to change
 I'll be a better man
I'm trying so hard to please you, girl
I'm trying to get inside your world.  
 Oooh, baby
 Love me, only me
 You're all I ever need
Love me just for me.  Love me just for me
Love me just for me.  Love me just for me