Scene: New Year's Eve Party
It's funny how things happen. I didn't even want to go to that party that night. Little did I know my entire life was about to change
Yo yo yo party people! The talk dance is next. And the spotlight randomly falls on this dude! And also on this girl who reads with her fingers in the middle of a party!
Eh?
No, hey guys. No you can't just grab people
Huh?
Come on you'll like it
Listen, I don't know how to talk – go away!
I just ate a peanut
What? Why don't you say your age?
Are you mocking me?
Yeah
Okay why you gotta do that?
Oh you know... mm ha ha ha ha... Sounds like you got the wrong guy! Ah we could both play outside-
Nuh uh!
Ooh hey!
Oh gross you're so smiley!
But I don't mind, girl!
Bah bah black sheep...
Ha ha! Nursery rhyme!
Yeah...
Hey I love good nursery rhymes and I just happen to be here? Ohhh-kay!
Yeah!
You're so rad – did you bring a camera?
I think, yeah
Ha ha ha ha ha! I need that camera so...
Hey I missed you so much!
Huh?
What?
{Lumpkinella:]
I can't really hear you. Huh?
Oh hey let's do this!
I'm ready!
Alright!
I thought I could feel a bug...
It isn't a bug. You just thought it was something, girl
Oh I just thought it was something...
[Chorky:}
...coooooool? I'm Chorky
Lumpkinella. Hey
Lumpkinella: it just sounded beautiful
Scene: Balcony outside party
Dude, I gotta tell you about my plant in the forest. You'll see it, right?
Sure, I guess, just as long as you don't get crazy
What? You won't die!
Are you sure?
For all I know you could be a horrible evil psycho!
You're so rude!
Well, you know I have a fireman friend
{Chorky :]
When Lumpkinella laughed it felt like fireworks were going off. Also, fireworks were going off
{Chorky :]
Oh no! Maybe she wouldn't notice! She noticed
Uhh-
I'm cool! I'm like a cool bomb. A water bomb. A-a-and I ate an egg... Oh no, dude, are you bored?
Yeah!
Oh then I'll show you um – Check out one of these bowls that I found in the dollar fun section! So, um, what do you thi-
And just like that she was gone. I guess she wasn't interested in conveniently priced dishware. That was a pretty great bowl though
Scene: Classroom
By the time school started again, I had pretty much forgotten about her
I don't wanna grow up to be like a dinosaur 'cause everyone will try to scratch me
Yeah, that probably won't happen
There you go, like a lot of people, just being judgy
Wait a minute. I recognize that hair
Hi Chorky!
Hey
It couldn't be her, could it? Lumpkinella?
Listen up y'all. I need cheesey sandwiches and a gummy fruit, and do your eyes even see, Chorky?
Hmm?
Okay, well I got some phone chargers for the Irish students
My lips are germy and salty 'cause weird bugs run behind Chorky
Hey guess what? Now you owe me fifteen bucks for your doo doo and shenanigans. Any questions? Ugh, this kid?
Yeah, why are worms on me?
Whatever!
Scene: Hallway
My friends all congratulated me on my cool hallway stance while I waited outside the classroom. And then there she was
Nyah!
Awkward!
I'm leaving!
What do you mean?
Your hair is brown?
Well it's probably 'cause of my transferral clickometer
Wait what's this transferral thing?
Wait, are you a simpleton?
What? Oh. Uh well my friends think I'm just normal, um, but I'm really The Pretzel King. I'm quite a guy
Sup, Chorky
Hey, Richmond
You should look behind you
Yeah, well I used to. But I'd see my friends and, um, I don't want to. I'm kinda feeling like macaroni a-
Scene: Another hallway
Oh, I like when they put glitter on these signs. I wanna do that
I know, right? Glitter is so cool. I put fruit in a basket and it was dope
Gnyack gnyack! You should put it in a bathroom
Which bathroom, Chorky? Oh, hey, new girl. I think you have a spoiled roach in your shoe
No, I was going to take an old person to prison. Do you hear that? Wow! That's a baby sheep
Chorky, I have a new friend now
I'm about to burp
Oh, just like me!
Mm-hmm. I like burps. Mmm
Oh. Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm
And loogies!
Too gross
Yeah...
Scene: Gym
So you know, I talked to that new girl, and um, I was really weird around her
How?
Oh, you know, feeling nauseous
Chorky, I'm pretty sure you got a problem walking. You need a scooter
Not me
You, buddy
Right then, there was only one thing that could make me feel better:
Here we go!
Basketball, basketball, we love basketball!
It's the best game that we play every day!
It's my bouncy ball!
It's your bouncy ball!
Yeah it's my bouncy ball!
Pretty little basketball!
Wow my feet are so raw, 
My ears are scared and the baby ostrich is cold
And now that makes you feel like you know karate. 
You're kicking your friend. 
Oh, why must I just – dance?
 Yeah this is my dance here!
In the gym, in the gym!
And this is my best dance!
And I can do this now!
Now walk it around, do it, yeah!
Na na na na hey!
I gotta clean my teeth and get some sleep!
And then we take the shot!
Scene: Locker room
Once a week my coach would come to the locker room to try to convince me that he was an animal of some kind. Yeah, it got pretty old
Now don't run away from me, okay?
I'm here
Hey did I tell you I'm a rodent? Yeah, I'm one of them rodents without fur. You see my snout? Hey now, you look me in the eyes, kid, cause I wanna dump a junk pile on my face when I don't have to. You know what I'm saying?
Um yeah?
Now see, you get it. Yep, good talk, Chorky
Scene: Science classroom
Yo. Can I pinch your shrimps?
Mm, awkward! Look my shrimps aren't around
Seriously?
Yep. Um hey
Well, what is it?
Well I was just... um... It looks like you ate a 26-year old man
Mm-hmm. I did, you're right. Oh, and a wild boar
Scene: Auditorium
One thing people didn't know about me was that I had an invisible cat named Corville. He was from space. He'd been missing for a few days and I thought I had heard him in the auditorium
Corville? Are you in here?
Hey!
Oh – hey!
Looks like you're looking for something
Uh, no? Are you?
No. I haven't lost anything. Though I'd like a bike pump
(Kelsey trips over. A miaow is heard.]
Corville! Hold on buddy! He's adorable. You tripped over Corville, he's my space cat. He's invisible. And now you know
Uh huh...
Wanna see something real cool? Hand: I gave it to you so you could hold it. Oh, you're quite a special bear
I'm not a bear
Oh yeah? How do you know? Think about this: can you play piano like the bear at the mall?
Easy. Come on. But you gotta sing
That dog took my leaf
The cat took the seat
And the human arm was stapled on a pig
The doll wears your clothes
But the goat wears your robe
I'm sure there were always rabbits inside me
I think your feet stank so much like corn
Wash your toes!
And I've never had someone gross me out like you do
Like a rotten tooth
And I've never had a dumb wart until you came along
Yeah, I owe that to you
And don't go get a big fork and fix the ceiling fan
Cause that could ruin the fork
Well, missed class now
Chorky! You have huge bangs, and you and your friend are gonna be in the talent show on Monday night. Work on your rhythm
And that's how I ended up in the talent show
Oh, great
Scene: Roof
[Chorky :}
I couldn't shake the feeling that there was something strange about Lumpkinella, but I just couldn't put my finger on it. Maybe it was because she – no, not that. Or maybe it was the way she – no, not that either. And then it hit me like a ton of pounds
Scene: Flashback to hallway
Well it's probably 'cause of my transferral clickometer... Transferral clickometer... clickometer... clickometer... clickometer...
Scene: Locker room
Oh, it had been right in front of my face this whole time! She'd probably just been waiting for me to figure it out
Scene: Hallway. Lumpkinella is reading a letter from Chorky
Dear Lumpkinella, I know you're a robot. And the secret's safe with me
Scene: Classroom
I'd never been very good with electronics, but this I could handle
Scene: Music classroom
The horse head...
{Chorky:]
...is terrifying!
This could cause nightmares in the night!
Clink-a-chockle-chocka-bee
This is good!
And I'm gonna be the sunshine duke
'Cause I'm making that weekend wish!
Scene: Auditorium
I couldn't decide if Lumpkinella was technically alive or not, but what I did know is that she made me feel more alive. And that's what really mattered
Scene: Canteen
I also knew that she was having a hard time adjusting to lunch at our school, which, to be honest, I could understand
Let's go bang on furniture
And then for no reason
Everybody's gonna walk around the tables
And we stop – tummy ache!
And this and this and this and wheee
Then we point and yell at the wall!
Y'all burping is my passion! I'm all like burp, burp, burp, burp!
Ugh, is that veal?
Oh, nope, nuh uh, that's no no!
That's nas-tay like tuna on a stick!
I like to burp, alright?
No no no shh!
Tom Lee's dad ran away!
Quit it!
And freeze
Yeah so after the scientists made me, I slapped the guardian and escaped from the lab. And I'm just trying to be human now
Hmm, I don't know how to take that
Could you ever forget that you're totally a mischievous android and you have to run on batteries? You never drank that milk
I'm gonna go
Scene: Locker room
Oh so if there's a dog in the bushes that's funny?
No no no. Dagavochu. A sweema tabba dabba jumble
Oh that's good
Hey you guys should clap. Clapping! Delicious
Hey let's yell Chorky's name
CHORKY!
Mousey!
Derf called you Mousey, but that was just Derf being Derf
He's a jelly head!
Take this, you'll want it. It's pretty cool
A potato?
Yeah that's correct
Scene: Science classroom
Okay today I want to show you this really old laptop. As you can see from the photo, somewhere out there is a squirrel who has fingers
Um, but, I mean, you know, I could get some of them from the woods
Lumpkinella! You look like a human, but that is not what you are
Scene: Locker room
Guys, can I have some water?
Oh that's fancy, a water? Why don't you just tell us about the girl? Is she an alien?
Of course she's not, don't be ridiculous. Guys, she's a robot
Scene: Science classroom
Okay, her hair is synthetic fiber. You know what? She wanted my cat and I think she stole him. Yeah, Lumpkinella's not a real girl. She's just a machine. We can switch her off in a dungeon, and then we'll go out and get bagels. But we'd have to find a dungeon first. Do they even still have them now?
Oh dear, you're busted, robot. It's for the best, Lumpkinella. Chorky needs a regular girl, with no hum. By the way, do all robots cry this much?
Scene: Locker room:
Hey Chorky, do you like oxygen?
I have to have it!
Yeah, I know, right?
Scene: Hallway
Woo, I got an owie
Hilarious. I heard what you just said to all your little boy friends
But I'm n-
Now everyone's gonna talk about us. They'll be like "Here comes Fleshy and his mean old robot. How do those two stay together?" Turns out, they don't
Lumpkinella!
Lumpkinella's android brain must have somehow misinterpreted what I'd said. When she cut herself out of my life, I lost my best friend, my talent show partner, and the cutest free tech support agent ever
Scene: Lumpkinella's bedroom
Hello?
I've been looking for you
Who is this?
Why don't you turn around and see?
Scene: Balcony outside Lumpkinella's bedroom
I just wanted to say:
"I saw a beaver jogging
Over the top of that dune
And his feet looked so wet
Adorable little wet dude
Oh, beaver jogger in the night
How did you get so wet?
If you're in my yard
I'll get you socks or something soon."
I wrote that for you. It's about us. You know if we leave now we could still make the talent show
Then let's go
Scene: Auditorium
What you say?
Cause I am about to drink from
The popular cup!
We're here! Hey, we're here!
Ahhhh!
We made it!
Don't start it without me
Don't worry. Hold on, I'm gonna get the mics
Lumpkinella may have been a machine, but that night she displayed one very human emotion: stage fright
Um... ahhh...
Wait, what are you doing?
I can't do it. Not when all these people are scared of me
Hey hey, wait wait. Remember the night we first met? Remember talk dance? Let's do this. Move those feet girl, come on! Get ready! Mm, hey, I need fries yeah!
I want a monkey friend!
Mm, monkey friend! Mm hmm! Hey, can you feel the breeze today? Mm, I gotta go around like oh woop woop oh sho!
I like trash bags oh oh ee ooh like owww and I'm very soft!
I'm sure oh hey!
Oh ho hee!
I need a rooster charm!
I don't have any pockets mm mm!
So you want a monkey friend, hmm? A monkey friend? Yeah!
And I already know what's gonna happen that weekend...
...when you buy a piranha
Yeah, it will bite your feet!
Say uh step step yeah! Like that mm mm!
Hey! And I'm maybe gonna walk down to that plant store...
...but only on weekends because that's when they get new plants! And we can say...
Ewie!
Ohh we bought a new ficus!
Yeah and the old one umm...
The older one...
...is just sitting in the house
And it gets in the way like it's a –
Ahhh!
Despite the crowd's reaction, we were definitely the worst act that night, and we came in last place
Ha ha!
Still though, I felt like a winner. It was finally time for everyone to perform the song and dance routine we'd been rehearsing for weeks
Every now and then I feel like scratching
With five fingers, “Hey! Howdy, you!”
Yeah, yeah!
But all I really need are apples and lasagna
Before I go to bed
I have a vacant stare ‘cause I’m a robot
I’ve got hollow lungs
I bet your toes are strong!
With soft skin engineered to feel girl-like
I’ll stay forever young, yeah
WA-HA, DA-DING-DING, CHOO-CHOO, HEY HAW
Wonder why no one that we know blows chunks every day and night
WA-HA, DA-DING-DING, CHOO-CHOO, HEY HAW
And don’t stare into the sun or else your eyes will burn and drip some goo ooo
And burn out
Can’t look at the sun or else your eyes will burn out
Can’t stare at the sun!
Come on, let’s have some fun! 
Don’t stare at the sun!
In my village we have Daryl, Daryl the Pony
And he’s been waiting for a gifted young rider ha ha ha
Yeah, you could not pick a pony that is better than
Daryl the Pony of Love!
WA-HA, DA-DING-DING, CHOO-CHOO, HEY HAW
Wonder why no one that we know blows chunks every day and night
WA-HA, DA-DING-DING, CHOO-CHOO, HEY HAW
Why don’t we check out all these socks and then check me out while I dance and go
Wow! Yeah! Yes! Okay!
Now we’re dancing the donk-diddy-donkey
Why’d you insist on kissing that clown?
Don’t say goodbye or sayonara
All the leeches love me!
We’re so glad to be here
Plinko waddy-waddy choo-wa diggin that soul
Round and round we go!
This is a dance we practiced in the gym
Plinko waddy-waddy choo-wa diggin that soul
There’s no way it could have been spontaneous
Plinko waddy-waddy choo-wa diggin that soul
It’s Corville!
I’m running weird!
WA-HA, DA-DING-DING, CHOO-CHOO, HEY HAW
I’m feeling no old-timey ghosts will be floating up on the ceiling
WA-HA, DA-DING-DING, CHOO-CHOO, HEY HAW
And don’t stare into the sun or else your eyes will burn and drip some goo ooo
And burn out
Can’t look at the sun or else your eyes will burn out
Can’t stare at the sun!
Wooooaaahh
Don’t stare at the sun!