I said, I was ready to put a stack up
But he had to ask his dad, he needed some backup
Told me his dad wanted to talk to me on the phone and make sure everything add up
I said that shit is sad Charron
You want me to talk to your dad on the phone
When are you gonna lose the chaperone and be a fucking man of your own?
When I was 17 I hustled blocks, had a couple spots
Pounds to my crew
But I never would've rapped outside my bedroom if I sounded like you
When I was 17 I could spit rhymes and freestyle hard
This kid can't even rap and y'all treat him like he's some kind of child star
Well I'ma make him die slow, like poorly prescribed drugs
Or I can make your life short like a .45 snub
Cause little Corey's rhymes suck, so keep your corny lines tucked
Cause we already know how child stars named Corey wind up
But you ain't no Corey Haim
This corny lame is such a groupie I should slap dude
He prolly ain't never even heard of Lost Boys/Boyz, the movie or the rap group
Yo, think about it, think about it
It's been 13 years since Biggie died
And back when that shit happened little Corey wasn't even five
So, now this little fucking preteen virgin soul hurting
His idea of a musical legend is Bo Burnham
Well since you need a history lesson, I'm gon' learn him
After I light up this little glow worm it's closed curtains
See I go hard for the 905, I stay repping that Hammer City
I laugh when you do like this with your hands
That's the same way I be milking your grandma's titties
Mothafucka, I'm a graveyard yet, you ain't even on my radar yet
So I'ma put Charron to sleep in a box, race car bed
Yo listen
You said might milking my grandma's titties, well my flowing's legit
You talking about my grandma, well you're older than her bitch
Listen, you brought up Bo Burnham, well he's my boy
That motherfucker is evil
When you heard his song Klu Klux Klan Cookout you're like, "He said what about my people?"
"You are not black!" Was always said by his mother
"Arcane, you can't say that word. You're not a brother."
Now look at you today you stupid fucker
That advice was like the bullet that killed Kurt Cobain
It went in one ear and out the other
Arcane, I met your friends Winston and Ted and that's Ted too
Arcane, you don't have any black friends dude
So where the fuck did you get that accent through?
Yo, he actually thinks he's black, this guy is a wigger
Stop eating Tootsie Rolls with a spork, you won't bite off your fingers
Go ahead and mention I'm young
No one's impressed with this evident scum
You're in your mid thirties and you dress like a thug
You're about as real as the ID I used to get in this club
Someone older than Psycho is something we haven't seen before
I've battled a Korean, you battled in the Korean War
See I should be getting a girlfriend, you should be getting a wife
16 years ago I was in diapers
In 16 years you'll be in diapers for the rest of your life
And your long ass introduction for Knamelis
Organik should've said your time was up
Ironically your intro didn't end til' 3:14, that's pi as fuck!
Son, I run my city like my name was Pops Papalia
I got an Ikea coffee table covered in pot paraphernalia
Since you said I'm 40 son I hope you're not scared of a failure
That means I'm 80 proof, my shit'll put hair on your genitalia
And you can say I'm washed up but I don't really think that's clever cause
Truth is I'm a veteran and you 'bout to be a has been who never was
You went 4 and 0 against bums, but you ain't never battled a vet
So it's time this little overrated faggot got a reality check
Listen, you battled Sandman, JWalker, Lokust and O.Z
So I guess you proved you can hang with the lost tier MC in the whole league
I beat cats like Knamelis, Scandalous, some real fucking OG's
This kid get excused from gym class cause his bitch ass is prone to nose bleeds
Now I know Ottawa got some real MC's
Osa and Bender both grizzly
So how you trying to go international in Grind Time? You ain't even the best in your own city
I heard you ducking Roosevelt cause you in the same age bracket
Okay faggot, you battle in New York with those arms flapping he'd put you in a straight jacket
Now, I understand this, you use those rebuttals as a gimmick
To me that shit's transparent
So everybody look it's King Of The Dot's kid with the flips
This little bitch named Sharon
Well you the type that should never try to rap outside your parent's home
So it's my Basic Instinct to put an ice pick through Sharon's Stone
Now, if this was URL, I'd have to blare the fog horn
Last I seen you, you could barely handle O.Z., it's Sharon Osbourne
Listen, you got molested by Knamelis and Pat Stay
But you were scared of holding his hand
Y'all on some down low Three's Company shit
Sharon, Lois and Bram
First you was Pat Stay's bitch, you call him your "sugar daddy"
But then when he pimped yo' ass out to Knamelis I guess you took it badly
So I'ma slaughter this geek and please don't bother to speak
You still got a piece of Knamelis pubic hair caught in your teeth
Bitch!
Pat Stay wants to rape me, those are the freshest schemes
If Pat Stay was here he'd knock this sucker out for wearing EXCO jeans
You are not black
An intervention was held by his family at his place in the fall
"Alex, you're 30 working at Ikea where they're paying you small
On your breaks you go and hang out with your gang at the mall
And for God will you stop telling people your middle name is 'Jamal'?"
If you're the baddest guy from Hamilton your town is to send
My dad wants the rest of my Cub Scout meetings held there for 2010
And you're from Hamilton? Well I'm a city slayer
After I murder you, your crew and your city mayor
R.I.P. Hamilton, like that Piston's player
When it comes to King Of The Dot, your sister's the biggest groupie
She gave the whole town dome like the plot for the Simpson's movie
Watch your fucking mouth son!
When it comes to girls I'm like GSP
I dominate from the top cause they're out of breath and they're gasping
With girls you're like Dan Hardy cause you'll never end up tapping
See I'm skinny and smart, love pictures of art and I'm sick at guitar
I realize people pick me apart cause they don't think that I'm hard
But Knamelis told me in high school you were picked on and scarred
You were gifted and smart with riveting marks
And ate lunch in the library with the kids that were really bizarre
So I realize I'm a nerd and I just live with the card
So you're battling the person you're afraid to admit that you are
I said yo, son
If all you gon' be spitting, is rehearsed writtens
I hope he brought more than that last weak verse with him
I swear to God you can bring a team of researchers with him
This dude can't even fucking find a t-shirt that fits him
Yo, and you can keep calling me a wigger
But you saying you taking his cash, its like you saying you clapping triggers
Son, you ain't stacking figures, you still playing with action figures
Quit bringing the same lame ass crackers with ya
Cause all of y'all seem like a bunch of rejects from ya high school volleyball team
But yo listen
I know I'm that dude that everybody loves to hate
Yeah, I choked and still won, gave y'all something to debate
Then I came back to clean up ya big brother Jake
So after this, you can tell Pesci I'm coming for the cake
You ain't hip hop ya fake, now you done pissed off at Drake
Antawn Jamison, I might just Chris Bosh ya face
See, cause everything I touch is ether
I should put you in a fucking freezer
You be almost like just like Justin Bieber but you never touched a beaver
Yo, and you ain't never hustled neither
So I don't know what this little guy about
But this some grown man business
I'ma have to put this little kid on timeout
Yo, I came to spit flames, I'm here to bust the ether
You compare me to Justin Bieber?
But you have so many ugly features
It looks like as a kid you were beat more than Russell Peters
Yo, and you talk like, "Yo, I'm Chris Bosh" basketball when you're making a rhyme
Well I fucked your girl she's the craziest dime
I left her legs more spread open than Lebron James when he's taking a stride
Listen, and you said I stayed at Knamelis's house the last battle you rapped in
Well the night before I stayed at your house I'll tell the people what actually happened
I showed up to his house in a red shirt, he was puzzled and confused
Like, "Corey, this is Hamilton! You can't wear that the Crips are coming over soon."
I watched you post up at Zellers from 12:00 to 6:00
With your arms crossed like that and foot on the wall like this
At your house I met your twin brother Mike
I said, "Wow, you guys are identical, you look exactly alike."
He said, "Man, what the fuck do you mean we look exactly alike?"
 wrapping salad for supper and rolled out the futon
As soon as you took a bite of it you choked on the croutons
I said, "Can I get you something to drink? Perhaps a cup of juice?"
He said, "Man, what the fuck is juice? I want some grape drink baby. Hmmm. Spurt and stuff."
It was bedtime and he said, "Boy, you ain't dressed like a rapper."
He brought me some 2Pac underwear and Exco pajamas
There was no blankets I was cold up on Arcane's sofa
He said, "Don't use the sheets on my windows. Here's one of my Scarface posters."
I looked at your Get Rich Or Die Trying wallpaper as I laid on your couch
And said, "Fuck. This. Shit. I'm going to Knamelis' house."
Just look at you, Jesus fucking Christ
You're 32 and wearing Exco...you suck at life