Pardon my ignorance
Partly belligerent
Part is legitimate
I pray that you listening
First off, i got some questions, i want you to guarantee me some answers
For the past 10 days, its been nothing but smiles and laughter
Maybe some tears but after
A few hugs its back to happily ever after
I ditched my phone, no tidal, Spotify, Napster
No apple music, jus me, some kids, and a pastor
They accept me for the fact that i cuss and still pastor
In fact they never even questioned my heart
Lil kid from the streets, they still love who i are
And we helping some people that need our support
Fucc the resume, we not even doing this to better rapport
But we bettered rapport
And bettered the poor
We saw what’s import
Gave the clothes off our back cuz they needed em more
Never needed a smile, had love and had more
Than i ever had at home so i guess my question is, what the fucc am I leaving it for
Pardon my ignorance
Partly belligerent
Part is legitimate
I pray that you listenin
Now listen in, i sit up on this rooftop, crying
Are you the God of all?
Why do you want me to leave them behind then?
Am i selfish?
Do They smile when im not there?
I just love em, can you tell me if you care?
Omnipresent but can you tell me if you there?
You judge, but can you tell me that you fair?
When they parents arent home cuz they busy being slaves
Working from 6 to 8 plus three hours in the day
The taste of the treat was bitter sweet cuz i can see the parents choppin at sugar cane
Working as hard as they can to make it off the batey
So where are you?
Tell me, you come around when i leave
Samuel is my brother, so is angelo, is he
On his way to the fields choppin trees
If so, than who your daddy cuz u a son of a B
Pardon my ignorance
Partly belligerent
Part is legitimate
I pray that you hearing this
I pray that you hearing this
If you wanted me gone, why the fucc you got me falling in love
Im sorry that i cus
But im frustrated, duhh
I aint never been okay with not being paid in my life
And then i looked into the eyes of Samuel, Angelo, Nuna, mine
Jazmine, both of them, Caley, I saiah
Chiquito, Michelle, Waa
Lace, i cant forget pee pee, is-mael
Jay, Michael, Matt, Jesse
Fernando, Luigi, dont forget me
Alex, alejandro, don’t forget me
I will work a nine to five until i can get the
Plane ride bacc so i can come back home
If you listenin to me then can you do somethin cold
Put 20 grand in my account so we can get up and just Go?
Say something? Anything, do me the way you did Job
In chapter 27 or 37 i dont know
Exactly where it is i just know that you explode
And you ask a bunch of questions that you know that i dont know
The answer to but fuck it, to know you was listening would mean the world so...
...
Pardon my ignorance
Partly belligerent
Part is legitimate
I pray that you listenin
I watched these people smile and just brighten up my day
Did you see the smile on Jazmines face
Or see the way Luigi hangs on her shoulder on her hip? If you did than im just sayin
Where do i find my smile when Caley isnt there to push her tongue through hers
When Matt isnt there to show me he heard it first
When Michelle isnt there to spend hours to converse
When Jesse isnt there to take a shower and converse
When Rilley isnt there to give me her lil smirk
When jasmine isnt there to help me be a flirt
When Angel isnt there to help us put in work
When Samuel isnt there to show us why he works
When Alex isnt there to tell me what i aint heard
When Ismael isnt there to tell me to fuck my people
When Kristina aint there at the times where i need ya
When Chystelle isnt there to call me her amigo
When Michael isnt there to give all his money to people
When my phone isnt there and i have to connect with people
When playing cards connected us all
When the bus rides wont be there in the morn
Just give me an answer, on how i keep goin on
When mi familia is back to being torn
Pardon my ignorance
Partly belligerent
Part is legitimate
I pray that you listenin
I hope that you listenin
I see you was listenin