Ah, ah, I'm tired of arguin', girl
I'm tired, I'm tired, I'm tired
Huh, I'm tired of arguin', girl
Huh, I'm tired, I'm tired, I'm tired
Huh, I'm tired of arguin', girl
Freaky-freaky-freaky-freaky, baby girl, huh
Did you sleep on the wrong side, I'm catching a bad vibe
And it's contagious, what's the latest?
Speak your heart, don't bite your tongue
Don't get it twisted , don't misuse it
What's your problem, let's resolve it
We can solve it, what's the causes?
It's official, you got issues
I got issues , but I know I miss you
Yeah, who should be hurt, who should be blamed?
Who should be hurt, who should be ashamed?
Who should be hurt, will we remain? Oh, I
We need a resolution, we need a resolution
We need a resolution, we have so much confusion
I wanna know, where were you last night?
I fell asleep on the couch, I thought we were going out
I wanna know, were your fingers broke?
If you had let me know I wouldn't have put on my clothes
 Where'd you go instead?
It was four in the morning when you crept back in the bed
I wanna know, what was in your head?
Or what was in my head, am I supposed to change?
Oh, who should be hurt, who should be blamed?
Who should be hurt, who should be ashamed?
Oh, who should be hurt and will we remain?
We need a resolution, we need a resolution
We need a resolution, we have so much confusion
Who should be hurt and who should be blamed?
Who should be hurt, who should be ashamed?
Who should be hurt, will we remain?
We need a resolution, we need a resolution
We need a resolution, we have so much confusion
Baby, let me know, you'll let me know 
You'll let me know, you'll let me know 
You'll let me know, you'll let me know 
You'll let me know, you'll let me know
Girl, holla
You give me bits and pieces
You tryna blame me when I don't even know the reason
I think it's just the season
Maybe the month, maybe you're bleeding
Now tell me what's the reason?
Snoop video? Looks are deceiving
So, cut the crying, cut the coughing, cut the wheezing, girl
Quit the blaming, cut the naming, cut the sneaking, girl
I think you need some prayer, better call a deacon, girl
So get your act right or else we won't be speaking, girl
So what's it gonna be?
Freaky-freaky, me and you?
Or is it gonna be, who blames who?
I'm tired of these things, I'm tired of these scars
I think I'm gonna get me a drink, I'll call you tomorrow, ooh