Even heroes die
The demons got to Bruce Lee the night the scarecrows cried
And Buddy Holly’s plane crashed from the sky
Franky Lymon got skanked by the devil himself
Disguised as a record label inviting him to the wealth
The high life itself
The price?... your health
No loyalties, dying with evil people fighting over your royalties
Lady Di rose above us
Ghandi taught us how to act like brothers
2Pac told us to respect our mothers
Abraham freed the slaves
Malcom x and Martin Luther were slain
‘cus when they spoke our hearts would relate
From Jesus Christ to J.F.K
It’s a wonder they didn’t try to snipe Public Enemy or N.W.A
Scorz
When the earth turned to night to help pass the life
A pastime pass the mic hip hop brought it back to light
I wonder why River Phoenix flopped the actors life
Put the crack in pipe and Marylin commited suicide
Kurt Cobain fed the nation teen spirit
Miles Davis the greatest
Biggie Smalls rags to riches he made it
Bob Marley touched the hearts of nations
It’s all in the book
And if guns were never made
Then Marvin Gaye would sing the hook
Chorus
I’ve asked questions they never answer me
When I’m gone I wonder what I’ll leave
‘cus when my demons come
What will they see?
Will they find a hero inside me
The whole world laughed with John Belushi
I think we’d all die laughing
If he and John Candy were in the same movie
And Jim Morrison’s music will always move me
And Sammy Davis Junior’s humour will always soothe me
I stay walking
On this cold earth
Until the day i jump out of my coffin like Screamin’ Jay Hawkins
The pressures of life
How much can we take?
Was it Michaels pops that made him nervous about his face?
Hollywood dreams and lost angels
Being pimped in a cold world
The world sings the same tune
They say that money changes you
And staying true is the only way to make it through
And when you make it people start hating you
Newspapers capture the capers like who’s famous
And when legends die it starts the argument who’s the greatest
Maradona or Pele?
Muhammad Ali or Prince Naseem?
All examples that you too can live the dream
John Lennon would have changed the world if he was still alive
Is He and Jimmy hendrix watching us from the sky?
Would Mother Teresa help kill the third world debt?
I look at earth and disappear on a gold trumpet
Through the stars to the gates of light
Where many lost souls meet
Discussing life as they reunite
I’d pass Big Pun and Big L
Freestyle with Freaky tah doing the ad libs
With karen Carpenter and Curtis Mayfield
Bussing jokes with Benny Hill
If I had the power I think I’d reunite Kim and Mel
I’d ask T-Rex about his mysterious death
Why did Mariah try to kill herself from the fame and the stress
Did George Best love the club life?
Impressing women when he looked nice?
For every up there’s a down
I guess that’s the good life
Ask Bobby Brown and whitney
It’s like drugs are the new culture
Like Eminem with the sound of sixties
Nobody’s perfect not everybody dies a martyr
But if I go I’m going my way like Frank Sinatra
If i could reach up in the heavens and see her
I’d tell the her the whole world fell in love with Aaliyah