Echō Unltd. ft. Shadowz In Da Dark - “My Old Flame”
My old flame’s
A steady lighter, I used to write her and excite her.  Took me
Higher at the point when my game was getting tighter.  Now I’m
Older, however wiser.  Sometimes, I miss her, but
Retire on them thoughts ‘cause she was full of fire
Type
Chicken to threaten other women with sharpened weapons
Tried to hold fort to ensure that nobody else was sexing me
Wetting me gruesome.  Quest to get this twosome
A low-down college student, so you know where Chrome got loot from
Tricking in dormitories, sticking, Kodak shots of all my pickings
This one particular bad baby had this brother on her
Mission for this brown-skinned sugar, tasty dishing
Loving them curves, hugging that sweater, body was kicking
 Met her at the laundromat washing her Vicky Secrets
I came through, plus she seen my steez and peeped it.  We clicked
Effeminate charm mature, my masculinity raw like
Lions hunting for lionesses, my campus missus—huh
But at yourself you threw disses, which is the reason
Missus get dismisses, step with no kisses.  “Yo, Chrome, your thing
Tell a nigga she’s seeded,” my peoples informed me.  “Yo, how
You figure I need that pressure on me?  You tell me you love me
You need me.”  “Darnell, don’t ever leave me.”  “Yo, baby, that’s creepy
Can’t stand no women that’s weepy—that’s when you never see I
Fly under the sky, that rocket do-or-die.  See?
Hip-to-hip is pleasure, but we must see eye-to-eye
You’re lucky I ain’t cut your fucking head out when you tried
To tell the dean I sodomized you, spreading vicious lies
‘Cause sex was the bomb, but, hon, we couldn’t move on ‘cause you’s
A chicken, and I’d never bring you home to meet moms.  And by
The way, the kid is not my son, so don’t even try it.  Two
Years passed, and still I must deny it.”  My old flame
“Someone’s gonna miss you, baby”
My old flame’s
A steady lighter, I used to write her and excite her.  Took me
Higher at the point when my game was getting tighter.  Now I’m
Older, however wiser.  Sometimes, I miss her, but
Retire on them thoughts ‘cause she was full of fire
You on
My mind sometime, I tried to catch you on the flipside
She can’t be denied, type looks to cause a homicide
There be a lot to say.  She didn’t send me back to basics.  In this
Desert, her curvaceous body looked like an oasis
“Excuse me, precious. I’ve seen your face in several places
Grill spots, leave no traces, plus you run things like Asics
Always on the move, so I ain’t chase it.  It’s time for service
If I shine too bright, you might get nervous
So U-N-I-verse to build a greater understanding
As time progress, I guess you just got too demanding”
See, I’ma do my thing and lay the game like blueprints, but honey
Wanna be a nuisance, always gotta add her two cents
It’s top-choice moist on the sex side of things
Back-spasms and orgasms without bedsprings, seeing
 like Marvin
Gaye, could “Get It On,” straight-up, baby the bomb, but Black
Sun ain’t getting caught up in them sexual pleasures.  I mean
Yo, we could kick it, get lifted together, whatever
If everything’s everything and you’re with it, I hit it
But things ain’t like before no more.  How can you dig it?
And I say  to all the women wanting
Fine silk and Vicky Secrets: just piece it 
“Someone’s gonna miss you, baby”
My old flame’s
A steady lighter, I used to write her and excite her.  Took me
Higher at the point when my game was getting tighter.  Now I’m
Older, however wiser.  Sometimes, I miss her, but
Retire on them thoughts ‘cause she was full of fire