You know... good evening everybody
And good morning, hope it's late at night
I feel groovy, feel good too
You know, sittin’ by, looking at all the beautiful people
That's been here in my head for so long
You out there
Especially you, holding your lady clothes
Snuggle up a little bit better
And give him a kiss on the jaw, mama
Lay back and relax
If you're flying, cool out, look to pilot takin’ care of job
You know, right now, my mind kinda takes me back to the old days
Like "Lost Someone", "Try Me", "Your Precious Love"
Huh, it takes me way back
Joe... I wanna call a young man right here
I'm getting him ready
A tough  from Kentucky
We call him "Little Joe from the Ponderosa"
Because he plays a whole Bonanza of soul in his horn
And ladies and gentlemen, this is a mini-concert to you
So lay back, and check out this one
Joe, take care of the VIP
Hey Joe, Joe
Can I get a little bit of Yakety Yak right here?
Right here, Joe, thank you
Wait a minute Joe, wait a minute, wait a minute
I don't want nobody to plow
Joe, will you kick us up a little bit
Take us out, Joe, think of Cold Train and the fellas
You got Boots and King Curtis right here
Don't play so much alto, brother man!
Joe, I wanna say thanks to the people of Kentucky
For sending us 
, thank you
Makes me feel good
Right now, I wanna call another young man
From Nashville, Johnny Cashville
Then say hi to Port and all the fellas
Tom T. Hall and Little Mike, that plays organ
A beautiful little man
Mr. Hollie Farris, ladies and gentlemen
Hollie, play it like you feel it, "Amber Waves" 
Take us to New Orlean, Hollie
Say somethin' sad, Mofuzz!
Wait a minute, wait a minute, wait a minute
Anything you do, anything you...
And Hollie, do you love your horn, Hollie? 
You love your horn? 
And you love your horn - anything you love, you make love to, is that right fellas? 
Is that right, fellas? 
Hollie, can you real quickly make love to that horn, right here, right now Hollie? 
Cool out, fellas
Hollie, help my J.B.'s, help my J.B.'s!