I told URL I was ready for war
Hooh!
And they went and brought me the smallest cadet
That reminds me, out of all guns
Why do the deuce deuce get the smallest respect?
Do y'all know deuce deuce bullets travel in niggas bodies?
So that mean I could dump a few all in his chest
And this hollow nigga gonna try to shake it off, and that's all in respect
But as soon as them shit's rise and  Shine, y'all gonna be mourning  his death
Now I ain't wanna kill you this early Blood
Truth be told, I was tryin' to prepare ya hearsе in May
But you chose February 29th in Leap Yеar, I agree this is the perfect day
NWX marks the spot, then right there in the Earth you lay
And if I see the X on  any type of gas, you get a Shell and so do every nigga in ya Circle, K
So I advise y'all to give it a rest, stop
Or he gon' get the Glock to his hat
This my son so if I step, pop, his dad hat get knocked to the back
His moms didn't even have enough money for the casket, she went and got it from Smack
And they buried him in a small room, so his funeral could drop on the App
You got about six seconds to live, five
Don't be offended
.9 gunnin', see five runnin' and it won't be a scrimmage
When I made it on TV I told myself, "Bustin' guns, just won't be my image"
And the same day I had a baby in the tre 
Shit, I felt like Dashiki from Don't Be A Menace
You know what?
This my last time callin' a gun a "baby", cause honestly it's gettin' kinda awkward now
We all keep sayin' we "got the baby"
Like that one gun is livin' orphan style
I put the silencer on my baby like, "Aww. It ain't talkin' now."
Took the silencer off my baby and wow, it make an ultra sound
Shine be sayin' shit like, like, "New Glock. Clean in my palm like sanitizer
I was Wild N Out way before Nick could even stand Mariah"
If that's your plan, retire
I'm in ya new crib lettin' the cannon fire
First round, warnin' shot, bullet goin' through the lamp and drier
But the second round? Tryin' to bring ya family down like Mike P against Danny Myers
You gonna find a Hollow wit' ya wife DNA on it
Because I murder Queens
Champion Of The Year?
You keep shortin' yourself, you never heard of genes?
K-Shine gonna 3-0 who? Me?
Tah
I came out here and caused a murder scene
Charlie Clips gettin' 3-0'd
Y'all be promotin' the Impossible more than Burger King
{Guy in crowd} That shit sucks
I said, everybody in the crowd know you fuck wit' Clips
Aye white boy, you know who else suck? Ya mother when she's suckin' dick
I said, I got the fifth and the pump
Let another nigga in the crowd say somethin' he gettin' hit from the jump
Why the fuck would you disrespect a black man on Black History Month!?
But you know what? That's not what Martin would've wanted
So you know what? I'm over that
I'm back, with that AK and the shoulder strap
Y'all know the one that's like a ratchet parent at they kid graduation because it...
Nah, I ain't gonna throw lead in his frame
I'm standin' over Shine, I'm tryin' to put some lead in his brain
And that shit clap more than the angry coach sayin', "Get ya head in the game!"
Hold up, hold up
You know what?
I'm so motherfuckin' mean wit' it...
What if the coach was white?
Now let's do a whole 'nother scheme wit' it
You better pray up, Facetime God and let Him know you on the way up
When this shit peel , it ain't Viagra, dickhead, but you gon' stay up
Shoulder strap, that mean I'm 'bout to load the AK up
Shit clap more than an angry white coach sayin', "Billy! Make the layup."
You already know what the fuck I'm holdin'
Why would y'all think Queen Elizabeth could fuck wit' Hogan?
Headshot, my real rounds don't need a fuckin' slogan
Round 1 man
Aye, when you first came back, you was dangerous nigga
Almost fightin', you had niggas changin' they shit up
But everybody advance, and you took that time out to start playin' wit' niggas
Now you Marty McFly
Why?
Cause you can't come Back To The Future without a fade in the picture
I will kick down your fat ass door, both the Smith &'s
One arm bro, and the next best thing close to mom like an older sister
They got his tombstone, mourning wit' it
Jehovah Witness
Drive-By, kept Clips rollin', this 'bout to be a motion picture
Somebody should've told Boosie that it can get messy
I'm talkin' church hats, pictures on the box; Little Debbie's
Grab his homeboy, give him a shot; Lil' Dezzy
Got his shit blown out next to Boosie; Lil' Webbie
And vital signs like they updated his will, but it's deadly
The shit went from mountain gear, to Giuseppe
Y'all think he's certified, he just like the Murphys, he just heavy
But notice I said, "Murphy" 'cause soon as Charlie die we keep shootin' Clips like we Eddie
Squeeze on the whole Clip
Beam for the focus
Brand new compressor, that I squeezed on the fo' fifth
Had the clap so low, Charlie Sheen ain't even know it
Head trauma, your shit can get all cerebral
Just a preacher and his pride that's an alter  ego
Y'all want Clips? I will give you all a preview
Old Wesson : I don't care for Chuck nor his  people!
Man you know what we do
My mothafuckin' fifth bang ya, my click stain ya
Nigga if you see these  skip like a disc changer
He be  when he battle Ill Will, that's big danger
Hang him off the top of a mountain, just danglin'
They don't know what happened wit' Clips, it's a cliff hanger
It was harsh too, a bucha dark news
And they'll never know until they find a part too 
Man I'm so motherfuckin' mean wit' it
I can take that "cliff hanger" "part 2" and do a whole 'nother scheme wit' it
I think the fuck not
Yo, y'all don't see that's a scam?
To repeat the same bar, takin' seconds off the clock, you cheatin' the fans
I only say shit one time, then the heat'll melt
If I gotta reiterate anything
Boom, if I gotta reiterate anything
Boom, if I gotta reiterate anything
If I-  I'ma let the history repeat itself
You seen what I did wit' Millz, foolio
I fuck wit' when most hated on the real, but y'all gon' make me go stupid tho
Run down on that nigga Vada with the toolie bro
You better come to network or I'ma have slime drippin' off over Nick's studio
You should know, I really go Bonkers, you know I'm wit' it
Got him playin', Guess What Room I'm In with a home attendant
You know the difference
He done woke up a goon again
Fuck the room, the doctor got the smiley face chart, tryin' to figure out what mood he in
Deuce deuce
I say Willy Wonka this thing can change Charlie's life like the Golden Ticket
I've been meaning to ask him for a favor, hold the Smith &
Got him playin' Guess What Room I'm In with a home attendant
You know the difference
He done woke up a goon again
Fuck the room, the doctor got the smiley face chart, tryin' to figure out what mood he in
Deuce deuce hooligan
Bullets be maneuvering
'Don't Let It Go To Your Head'; Brand Nubian
I shoot 'til I think that he dead, but if he move again
I beat it in his head, I gotta get through to him
I ain't the one Chuck, two poles
You'll be numb Chuck 
One metal, one wood, Chuck, this shit'll chuck Chuck
Another Crime, Mob: get a 'Knuck If You Buck', Chuck
Stomach shot, but he throwin' up Blood, you goin' up Chuck 
Ya dumb fuck
I'm really 'bout to send you to the gates
Me and DNA, got a back and forth rhyme already made
We gon' talk about how funny you was, at ya wake
He can play, I'm really 'bout to shoot dawg
You want the church or the court attire, which ever one suits y'all
Make sure, he dressed for the occasion; RuPaul
Two .4's, blue Chuck and slacks; Snoop Dogg
Doo doo, kick over the box when they view dawg
Now they gotta Chuck  upside down; newborns
Shine I'm in love witcha mother
And since I'm 20% stepdad and 80% your brother
I ain't gon' get personal, I'm just gon' wipe yo' ass rhyme for rhyme
And DNA, we all know you the one who coached K, so could you let Duke know
It's suicide for even tryin' to go line for line
I can't get personal with my brother!
The only thing left to do with these bars is to get a little grimy slime
Cause they say, "Bullets ain't got no names" and {click click} neither do this bald head like Michael Jordan in Live 99
 He had an afro
 Shut the fuck up while I'm doin' my rounds or get a nunchuck! Now...
Two Harlem niggas on a winning streak huh?
Well I didn't come here to fuck mines up
You named your name "Shine" how beautiful
I got a couple punchlines tucked
Two Harlem niggas, you know we love our Timbs, right?
If you be the reason I scuff mines up
Crackhead tryin' to buff a brand new floor; I'm 'bout to fuck Shine up
Now I want you to remember that last line and I don't care whether you respect it or not
You used to be down with the Mob so pay attention to how I'm connecting the Dots
I just came up with the illest scheme
Right on the spot, Shine and the shit is mean
Notice I said, "buffing the floor" the mean I'm workin' wit' a big machine
Street sweeper, longer than the Swiffer Jet, I'm tryin' to hit his spleen
Bald head in his ear ring 
Yeah Shine on the floor, that's Mr. Clean
Now I want you to remember that last line and I don't care if you respect it or not
You used to be down with the Mob so pay attention to how I'm connecting the Dots
Now I understand you outspoken, but that don't give you a reason to be out speaking
I'ma put Shine on the floor, you gonna have to hand him a new towel cause his mouth leaking
Headshot when I walk in the room, I got Shine all in the house leakin'
I did a good job, cause I left Shine in the room like good housekeepin'
You know what? All them bars was aaaah
But this is Clips, Shine
Get a grip Shine
You got a parole officer, I don't wanna hear you loadin' ya fifth, Shine
When the cops made you put your shotty away but 69
I grip mine, but this about ya aunt cause the bitch fine
So much slob, she could clean off old boots with all that spit, Shine
You know what? You wanna take me outside and fight?
This is not the time bro
I am not for convo
I get to rushin'  niggas dance like them niggas that shot Alonzo
If ya father try to tussle while I got the gun? I'ma pop the .9 slow
And for wrestlin' wit' me, you better watch Papa Shango 
Now for all you new wrestling fans, you young niggas
I already knew you'd be blind as fuck
I'ma take every nigga in Shine's family, I'ma line 'em up
He gotta dress for a funeral, everyday
Gucci shoes, slacks, Louie belt, all that designer stuff
I'ma have Shine in suits more than The Lox when they first signed with Puff
Give me a hug bro it's Black History Month
You see what I'm sayin' bro, you it's not hard
When I did you a favor and killed Rex so you could become the leader of Dott Mob
I put the group inside ya hand
You was beefin' wit' Rex and we seen the boy panic
You had a chance to be King Of The Dot but I guess it didn't feel organic 
So you still under Rex now, JayBlac, ask him out this TEC  sound
And NW is gettin' X'd in the next round
You see how you makin' them faces? And these niggas is not cheerin'
That's why I don't respect clowns
So y'all niggas gonna treat me up here like I'm up here spittin' Chess rounds?
Okay, cool
It's inherited, I was raised with the guns
So we keep it in the family
You get the business, have your whole operation, complex, that's just logistics
Gold necklaces, wit' ya picture on the front
In remembrance
I always said, "God bless a man that can stand on his own."
Now he independent 
The demon's back
If you ain't call me for this card
I'm sorry Caffeine but I was gon' fuck this shit up!
He like, "Ain't nobody gonna be ready in time Shine. You gotta hit Clips up."
Well I called his fat ass phone
I thought he had a ring back tone
But it was a voicemail, this nigga done got slicker
You wanna know how it went?
It was like, "Beans, greens, potatoes, tomatoes, salam, ham, hog-" you name it
The shit said, "Hello."
I said, "Nigga!"
Shit gon' say, "Sike I lied. You reached the right person at the wrong time. I'm prolly doin' situps
Sike I lied again. But this Charlie if you meant to hit Nick up
I prolly got my eyes squinted, doin' the same peace signs in the picture
Leave your name and number after the beef and I'll get back witcha."
Incredible
BEEP
I say, "I checked the Wild 'N Out calendar, you ain't got shit to do on the 29th nigga
What's up? Let's get it rockin'
Mary Poppins; don't bitch up
It ain't gon' be no robberies, but you might see a stick up
I done made a nigga drop every single card
Now I'm comin' with this .50 too ...Pick Up!"
Let him try me
Get Rock-ed fast as shit like Jumanji
Shotty, duplicated Clips like a copy
Headshots, got busy  on tracks, Bone Thugs-N-Harmony
But first Charles get the head tap, then they gonna miss everybody
.44 you 'bout to hear a bulldog growl
100 shots, I got somethin' for all y'all pals
London Bridge, that's where it all falls down
Flash the titties on Clips; Girls Gone Wild
You made us all so proud, you finally made it to the big screen
I will pull up to where you are and be  bitch, I give a fuck about your BIG 'Dreams'
Scope on it, one eye, boxing Clips; Mitch Green
He had so much potential, now they gotta give Clip wings
If I scheme, it's a stake out
Even if I gotta wait until the morning pass
To take Clips down off the post like 
That's just one body, I wanna see 'em all in bags
Give me credit for the names falling after Clips, the rest got a supportin' cast
I'm on yo' ass
Beam after hours
Your students gon' make me boost the crime rate
No I said, "after hours", in other words, if I gotta flash this ring, Charles pupils gon' die late 
Bird, go from region to region; migrate
Check your temperatures wit' the sticks
I get it shakin' off the vibe rate 
Niggas ain't checkin' for you in years; MySpace
Real niggas, just ain't fuckin' wit' it; prostates
.9 raise, but his soul flat
Shell toes, Clips in an all white cast; Melrose
One arm over the other; jail pose
You can get a pair of these  Clips; Chappelle Show
Shotgun pellets, soon as the bro's shell broke
Soon as Rain sleet, he gon' be wishin' he held  snow
Hell hoes, did he do somethin' Shine? I don't know
Shit just got dark for no reason; elbows
Then the sky open up wit' Clips; Pharrell Show
Go 'head....
....
I said, game on Spotify-
You gonna go?
 Oh I didn't know. You Sike I Lied?
 Yeah I Sike I Lied
Game on Spotify, you 'bout to see Blood streams
Right after K .9  bust, like a drug sting
All he seeing is mink, Frank Lucas in the front seat
Don't make me put Clips on a shirt like cuff links
Now I'm done nigga
NWX bars is somethin' you gotta deal wit'
No matter how many times you watch Bad Boys, you and DNA are not Martin Lawrence and Will Smith
Whatever happened to Th3 Saga?
That whole situation was so fake to the fans
He had a jerk off problem and needed therapy, did any of y'all try takin' that man?
That nigga chicken was gettin' choked out worse than E. Ness on Making Da Band
Every night he would jerk off with his right and y'all niggas kept shakin' his hand
But when the fans found out y'all stopped, and that's when we knew the situation just wouldn't work
They would hit the hood wit' merch
NWX gear but wouldn't put Saga face on not one hooded shirt
{Jaz The Rapper says something}
Sup'
You need to fuckin' chill
It's my crib, and I throw Jaz out the house like Uncle Phil
Why the fuck is you talkin' man?
NWX gear but wouldn't put Saga face on a hooded shirt
If you ask me, NWX like bein' wit' them is full of perks
But if you ask Saga he think NWX is full of-
You know what?
I know I'm up here givin' you Hell, but for violating the Christian, you about to go through Hell again
And Saga last name is LeBron, all you Laker fans, let that settle in
See to be Frank, he need coachin', but when he was on the team, y'all was better then
Ayo D, without LeBron, you niggas is just a Pelican
And whatever happened to my nigga Big Tuna?
Y'all took my nigga off the shelf and put him through the shelf
You sat Mr. Chilakaboom on the bench wit' ya stupid self
You, T-Top, DNA, tried to be a cold cut trio and wouldn't give tuna help
Got in the game, wouldn't look the sub' way  and then we all watch Tuna melt
When Big T left NWX, you was thinkin', "You gotta be dumb"
He couldn't get a clear shot wit' y'all, but on his own he handled the whole bottle of Rum
And that's when I knew he wasn't sleep, cause us fat niggas is woke
The irony, he joined NWX and you the last nigga he smoke
He said he squeezed iron lead, police sirens sped
Sirens blue, white and red, whole team finally fled
Boy it ain't funny here  when police found him dead
I ain't givin' him bunny ears when I put the peace  behind his head
See how I showed my nigga Tuna and Saga love?
That's cause Clip no diva
For bein' cold hearted to my nigga from the Chi', I got a big ole' heater
Shit's stuck in my pants
I ain't tryin' to dance at a disco neither
I put the peace  in front of ya eyes, I got 'Disco Fever'
You on Instagram makin' rap videos, actin' like he killin' it in the lab
Not knowin' when his CD drop, we gon' throw his disc more than Krillin when he mad
I know, I know, "A Krillin bar Charlie?"
That ain't the shit I wanted to use to off my man
I ain't even wanna bring up Dragon Ball Z but again you  force my hand
So now I gotta pick a low  flow
He screamed, "Fuck the police", that's until I gripped the fo' fo'
And this fat nigga start blackin' out everywhere, then he gon' miss the po' po' 
What's up wit' Smack tryin' to bring niggas up through the App?
Man that shit's a no go
If Jerry Wess the face of the league, word to Kobe we gotta switch the logo
I said, life is an open book, and I'm tryin' to prepare you for the next chapter
I done fucked legends up in the game
They book me and them niggas experience death after
Verb, Rex, you...man I done got rid of some of the best rappers
So NWX for me stand for Now Where's X-Factor?
{X-Factor walks out from behind K-Shine and steps to Charlie}
Bullets is like moths
I send them shits X's way and it's gon' eat ya clothes
Mind ya business
I'll call you next time when I need the nose
See y'all gas Shine up, when they rewind this back they gon' say I won, and that's the classic part
See, you talkin' durin' my rounds, gotta get a brush and paint some classic art
God gave you DNA and T-Rex, you ain't know what to do cause you ain't half as smart
If y'all would've gave me Rex and DNA I would've made Jurassic Park
That's it man
You lied to me
Battle Lux said you won't play your game
You lied to me
All them times you said you in the gym
You lied to me
Hold yo' gut and say you gettin' slim
You lied to me
Yes you do, yes you do
Return Of The fat
Return Of The fat
Oh my God
Return-
NBA in the 60's
You think everybody playin' Chuck
Look at his face
He talkin' to Surf but he don't even know I walked him into a bar
In other words, the games is up
Banger tucked, then your brain get touched
Rearranging stuff
Nina grippin', finger lickin' like a paper cut, he layin' up
Prayin' that somebody gon' save him but
It's John Bosley, they gotta gather Charlie's Angels up
Got it shakin' wit' the birds, Smokey off the angel dust
Razor up
You really thinkin' I'm playin', huh?
I just wanna know, why's everything so fuckin' funny?
I don't care if he Paid In Full this Mitch ain't gon' be so lucky
He get the big butt and disappear like Buffy
Trust me
I will do Charles like Chuckie
Y'all lookin' like, "That was kinda wack, right?
He just gon' end the shit with Chuckie?"
Yup! Just Charles soul in  a dummy
Dummy
Y'all gon' have to get ya man up for help
Can' off the belt, blam 'til he fell
But this NASA gravity Clips, the broom gotta stand by itself
I hope you told Smack "farewell", this where you die
Disappear in front of your eyes, this a mirage
Spin on him, give him the deuce, this is goodbye
Memories from Clips everywhere, this a collage
Boxcutter hit off the the thigh, get ripped and fly
Give him lashes, on lashes 'til it's death and demise 
You know the vibes
You know my bop, don't nothin' scare me
I'll have you off the count, with a spirit in your mirror; Bloody Mary
Death can get expensive, you better call Harry
You know how I rock, get slicked back and I'ma get Chuck buried 
Crossing guard, I will wave all .4's in your direction
I multiplied in my prime, that's a product in itself like 11
Stretch him
Throw homie bullets, but if Chuck intercepted
It'll start with a stray but end up with a halo over Charlie; All Dogs Go To Heaven
I know ya methods: scheme, scheme, scheme and that shit has gotten corny
I know that's one of ya Lanes but we came back to hear  lines; Tory
Drink Champs I want every shot with Clips; Nore
The front of the house shot to the left
But got the steps white like a sorority
What the crib gotta do wit' it?
I'll explain it
He tried me like a shorty
That was his first flaw , now it's two sides to the story
You bore me
But I ain't gon' lie, you made yourself a name, he secured the bag
He literally found an honest way of livin' off of playin' games
I ain't knockin' it, I'm just the opposite, we ain't the same
I don't wait for the cam' to flage , I put this together by makin' stains
So if it go viral, it's cause Chuck's on the floor; Nas at the Laker game
I don't know, what's goin' on in your crazy brain
But I will give your illusion this ; David Blaine
Smokin' Clips; Wiz Khalifa with the 'Paper Planes'
You can get the high sock and the low cut Chuck; Taylor Gang
Steel'll bang, even if the mag' don't spit, I'll smoke this square in his cougar house; ashtray bitch
I let the last eight spit, then I pull the whole stick out it
What's the big idea with shootin' guns?
I get a kick out it
That's a Juice shot, 2Pac, 'Hit 'Em Up'
Get ya crew shot wit' an oowop, pick him up
NWX the rest of you niggas suck
Y'all know- hehehe
Zip 'Em Up