I said, yo!
So you spread lies on social media, and these haters had a hard-on since
Well, I ain't social with the media, boy: I'm Marshawn Lynch!
You were still begging for my help when you battled John John, bitch
Yep! So act like a hard rock, but I know who you been getting your bars off since
See, he was jealous I won my title back, so that's not a shocker
But for all that acting like you a writer, you should've got the Oscar
Sorry, ho
This gon' be the Maury show for this fraud impostor
'Cause in the case of the three-year-old lines we traded, Daniel, you are NOT the author!
Yeah, that stripper line you got from Soul Khan!
That ain't one of your quotes!
That White House line was from a Jeff Ross comedy roast
Square cheese, Kraft...wait, is this some kind of practical joke?
You're telling me out of the couple lines we traded, there ain't a single one that you ACTUALLY WROTE!?
True story
But you know what's even more creepy and more sad
This motherfucker had more ghostwriters than a Ouija board's had
You throwing stones from that glass house you a squeegee boy at
And he enlisted all of y'all in the sabotage like this a Beastie Boys track!
But, yo, you could try to spread those lies, but you ain't exposing me, son-
Hold tight! I said, I seen your battle with Rone
They won't be giving this Jabroni no crown
I could've crushed you on that card sponsored by OVO Sound
Dizaster lied and said you "sold me whole rounds"
And you just bobbled your head, and ran with the bull like a rodeo clown!
So that's why I said you could try to tell those lies, but you ain't exposing me, son
He's had ghostwriters ever since the moment this phony begun
We could talk about every single battle that you supposedly won
Matter of fact, since he likes to expose motherfuckers
Let me show him how it's supposed to be done!
Yeah, check it out
Your King of the Dot debut, you battled Q
They called it a body bag for you after
You told Q he's such a "wannabe Asian battler, he probably hates Dizaster?"
Your whole first round was full of those Asian jokes that got a lot of great laughter
But we both know you got that ENTIRE ROUND from another Canadian rapper!
Who?
Oh, say word you didn't get that whole verse from HFK!
No? Oh! Oh! Oh, yes, you did!!!
I got all the screenshots to prove it
Lemme address you, kid
Yeah, you even used bars in the Grand Prix that he blessed you with
Along with bars from 100 Bulletz and Charron!? What!?!
I suggest you quit!
'Cause when he battled Diz, he used Dirt's verses
That's why you stumbled half the time
So it's not just the fact you borrowed a couple raps of mine
You take from Fredo, Frank Stacks...shit, your brother Madness' lines
A Caustic verse is just a collage of a bunch of other rappers' rhymes!
And that's the truth!
So, after this landslide loss, you need to stand back or sit
'Cause you can't write bars, and you can't rap for shit!
Each one of my verses handcrafted, legit
For yours, you went to Dirtbag Dan's attic for band practice, and sandblasted some dick!
But, yo, yo, yo!
It's no wonder he's always begging for lines
He's a coke head and a dope user
So, congratulations on being a broke loser with no future
Yeah, he acts like it's all just some crazy rumor
No, no, that's time, that's time!
No, I can't give you more time
But this bitch been stealing jokes, that's lazy humor
You battle rap's Amy Schumer!
You kidding me? Reactions, though! Reactions!
You're over time, bro! You're over time!
Yo, yo, check this out!
No, this last few I gotta get out!
Go ahead! Let him rap!
Well, fuck it! Let him rap!
Let him rap! Let him fucking rap!
I don't care! LET HIM FUCKING RAP!
Yo, this shit's been a long time coming, man
Let me talk!
So I said, yo, you took my coattails for a joyride, B
Now, this is like Chef Ramsay cooking Italian versus Chef Boyardee
I spark the burner, let all of all y'all see
You could wind up with your noodle all dented when I blow off steam
You wanna test my pen, eh?
This fool silly
I'm making fresh dough
I don't know who you think you battling, weenie
You just a pest, though
That's why you could never pass the bars with the best, ho
'Cause everything you had for Chedda was all Fredo or all Fresco!
That's why y'all need to stop booking him!
Or he needs to start depending on his friends less
You shouldn't even be able to get one plate, like your bench-press!
You a lame, Dan
You been using that same game plan for a while
That's why these Caustic fans are really just Arcane fans in denial!
Time
You're a minute and a half over, bro
'Kay, my bad, my bad! I gotta get these bars out
Three minutes, we said, right? Three minutes, we said!
Are you done, or are you finished?
No, three! The contract says three!
Are you done, or you finished?
Are you good?
I SAID, YO!
Dude, you saying I got all those lines from all those people?
That's just fucking downright inconsiderate
But YOU'RE telling ME I didn't write NONE of the bars that you bought?
Dude, I don't know if that sounds bad on me, but you're a fucking idiot!
Yo, that's a nice sweatshirt, man!
What is that, Ecko?
No? Let's check: "Hello...hello...hello..."
I guess so
Arcane...that's a hard name
What are y'all mad about? Mad you bought some bars, eh?
Remember Bargate? Fucking dark days
You know how he got his first verse? Card game
Runner runner flush: smooth move, Brigante!
So, I can tell right now that you're one of those guys that learns shit the hard way
Look at him he's even trying to copy my beard
You don't even know who you are, 'Cane!
Yo, you got EXPOSED in front of Drake!
You brought our league shame
I mean, God, you didn't even pay me for the Diz battle, bitch
Technically, that's OUR chain!
You WISH you wrote those bars! Liar!
Yo, I've been waiting a long time to break you down
You know what? Fuck a Bargate
These ones are on the house: you can take these rounds
Dude, you don't even have real homies!
You have to pay for pals
You helped me?
Bitch, you helped me about as much as Donald Trump helped Puerto Rico with those paper towels!
See, I'm way too clean, but compared to you, I'm a lot fresher
Bitch, you see me in the streets, you better tuck that shit in like a cross-dresser
Bitch, my bars are the only reason that you actually got Chedda
It was his hottest bars ever
No wonder they call them "Arcane"
What? One day he magically got better?
Yo, you are a weak-ass spitter, and an even weaker performer
Bitch, you were way fuckin' better when you had me in your corner
I've got bars in at least four battles that he's recorded
Bitch you dropped more money on those rounds than fuckin' Wheel Of Fortune!
Look at this fuckin' idiot
He's gettin' mad, he's tryin' to discredit me
At this point, your best bet is just tryin' to share the legacy
I feel like it's a game show sometimes, I gotta question the square next to me
You took eight bars for 200, Alex: your career was in jeopardy!
You see the left hand; a good look, shit'll catch you dead in the eye
This right hand? Wrote the best shit you ever said in your life
You have never been nice
Consider this a lesson in life
When you don't pay what you owe you gotta pay the Jefferson Price
I hope you get booed like, "Dude you suck! You little FUBU fuck!"
I swear to God if you throw one punch I'll fuckin' chew you up
Everybody's just here to see if I swing on 'Cane like Scrooge McDuck!
Look at how much attention our fuckin' rivalry brings
Look, let's see how much fuckin' traction his little lies can achieve
Fuck a battle rap, this a casket match, this the shit y'all been dyin' to see
Cause we all know without The Undertaker, we would've never seen 'Cane have fire in the ring!
One
Nice round, I wonder who wrote those bars though
My knee's outta place right now, yeah
I said yo, this motherfucker should've been gettin' his bars up
Instead he was gettin' his beard up
Well now you fast food, I'll put that Big Mac to his beer gut
He at the barbershop like, "I know this sounds weird but...
Give me the System Of A Down syndrome beard and let's go with the Macklemore haircut."
The fuck is wrong with you son?
And why do you try to talk like Sylvester Stallone?
You lost to Stevie P out west, I thought the west was your home
Shit, you even signed a girl's breast, I bet you was just in the zone
But you don't get points for that shit when the bitch got a chest like Charron
Little flat chested bitch
Yo, that girl wasn't even a 3, I'd give her maybe like a 2
And that's the girl you went to the event with? That's your baby? That's your boo?
Nope
Shit you just love those ugly girls huh? I don't know how you date them like you do
But I guess your options are kinda limited when your face looks like a shoe
Meanwhile I'm the face that team 'Ganik has been tryin' to recruit
Cause I've been nice in the booth since pinstripes and a suit
He'll see defeat when the cleats catch him at chin height with the boot
And poke so many holes in his throat it'll turn his windpipe to a flute
See, he can't write bars like that
So I'm only doin' this battle cause I felt like I owed this to the fans
It would've happened sooner but this loser had a whole list of demands
He wanted to do the battle in Cali so he could have home spitter's advantage
With his whole clique in the stands and have it hosted by the Klan
That's when he phoned Bishop to rant, tryin' to go switch up the plans
He wanted a bowl of red M&M's and a gold tinted Sedan
With three Asian hookers in the back that used to pull tricks in Japan
And he insisted on growing that stupid beard to look as homeless as he can
And you told Marvin that his beard looked like the Wu-Tang logo
Shit, your beard look like you beggin' for loose change, hobo
Funny now this dude's name is too lame, your views ain't promo
I'm top of the food chain you look like you shop at the food bank bozo
Let me tell you this, your last battle got like 3,000 views, your career's in limbo
Ain't nobody checkin' for you, you've been stale from the intro
If his people stay hatin' I'm like a real estate agent
Post up on his front lawn and let four sail through his window
He don't write like that
Apparently they don't care
This fake Italian kept my name in his mouth for years and I know why you mention me
Cause you was never relevant til you tried to undermine my legacy
I should let smoke rise from his chimney like the Pope just died in Italy
You lied religiously but I Romans are known for revising history
That was good
Check it out, this motherfucker tried to claim he was a ghost writer but that was all lies
He said Dizaster stole his laptop but that was all lies
It's like battle rap was stuck in a paradox since you told that pair of lies
So it's only right tonight you get stomped out with a pair of Dock's 'til you paralyzed
So, yo, I'm here to watch this pathological liar get trapped and caught in the fire
I should take his fuckin' needle nose and snap it off with pliers
He's battle rap's Pinocchio: just look at the size of his nose
I wouldn't be surprised if it grows for all the lies that he's told
He said he couldn't cross the border for a rap on a gun case
Right, you ain't a shooter, I could wrap you in duct tape
It's like this meatball playin' street ball
He was duckin' travelin' upstate
Tried to pivot 'til we see how easy he can cross over
We know his pump fake
So yo, after this, stop lyin', stop snitchin', stop cryin', stop bitchin'
Stop pandering to these fans and vying for their attention
Your spot as Battle Rap's Biggest Loser will be forever reserved
And y'all fans can stop givin' him credit he never deserved
Cause after this I don't give a fuck if you starve in a ditch
Out of all people it's funny you're the one that started this shit
Then he gets called out for stealin' every bar that he spits
I guess what goes around comes around, huh? Karma's a bitch!
Yo!
Whatup Toronto y'all wit me?
Hello? Hello?
Yo, did you seriously just make fun of my fuckin' haircut? You little fuckin' shit stain
How you gonna make fun of anybody's haircut when you haven't taken your hat off since 5th grade?
Dude, look at you 'Cane
You look good dude
Got a longer beard, bought some Caustic schemes
You're right on time, looks like you dressed up as your favorite rapper for Halloween
Who wrote that bitch?
Freestyle
I said at the last event I was supposed to battle Bonnie, I was down for the scrap
At Battle Of The Sexes they offered 'Cane 40 B.A.R.R.S
He was like, "Yeah...how much is that?"
Yo, you were 33 when you battled Corey Charron
That was in 2010
My dude, you are confirmed: at least 40 years old
You're 40? You're 40
No
You're 40 years old
Still tryin' to make it with music?
I guess, at this age, gettin' a 30 dropped on you is a major improvement!
So 30 is the new 40, this kid is too corny, it's an instant vic-tory
You always makin' up lies, every week it's a different story
Isn't it boring, bitch, you get animated, shit'll get gory
I'm killin' this random fuckin' Pickle Rick Morty!!!
See, all those bars you spit for Chedda, that was shit I was never meant to sell
And then, after Bargate came out, your little rap career got put up on the shelf
I mean it makes sense, you had those IKEA bars
Everything fell apart when you tried to put it together by yourself!
Oh, that's fire! What's wrong with y'all?
Oh my gawd, that's amazing!
So, go sit somewhere else, there ain't room at our table
Everything happens for a reason, 'Cane
You know what the reason is? God hates you!
I'm bringin' you back down to Earth
I'll turn Arcane into archangel
If any of these fans bought that bullshit you sold 'em...surprise, they Arcane'd you
Yo, you can try to pull that shit on these casual-ass new jack fans
And let these losers think you're Wolverine, when, truthfully, it's just a huge act, man
If you think all he bought was punchlines then shit will really fuck your head up
Cause check this out, Diz' was in on the shit the whole time bitch, the only thing you bought was a setup
Yo, you are fuckin' trash
You are fuckin' trash
Look at your fuckin' life
Dude, I mean I was patient with him, waited for him to admit that it was blatant plagiarism
But instead he switched and played the victim and blamed all of y'all
Like all of y'all put a gun to his head and made him pay for writtens
The fuck?
Actin' like I can't beat you
And thanks to this contract and Organik, I'mma keep this rap peaceful
But the next time you decide to bite the hand that feeds you
Make sure that it can't reach you
Bitch
I said yo, I could've predicted this clown was gonna start talkin' 'bout his hands early
Well here's a free lesson; real bosses don't get they hands dirty
I brought a room full of goons that's ready to stretch this man's jersey
So eat a dick you piece of shit I'm 'bout to fuckin' catch this damn 30
I got your fate in my hands like I'm flippin' Tarot cards
You got flat lines I don't I don't hear no heart
They said, "Watch it he spread gossip." I said, "Let that weirdo prepare those parts
He needs gossip to compensate for havin' zero bars."
I'm one of the great, I chop heads off and hung 'em on stakes
In that Grand Prix y'all seen me in one of my hungriest states
As far as Chedda, that was just somethin' I ate
You was starvin' watchin' me eat and you're lucky I tossed you a couple crumbs from my plate
Then you battled Jefferson: what a fuckin' disgrace
You sold your soul for a priceless when Soul punched you in the face
So that's when I looked up his name in a thesaurus, and consider it luck
"Caustic" is another word for "bitter", which makes sense 'cause you bitter as fuck!
That's why you doin' all this fuckin' extra shit tryin' to act more tough
Well I brought a jackknife and a semi: that's a transport truck
I'll park that Mac on his grill like a transport truck
And if that don't kill him, the sixteen will like a transport truck
C'mon man, y'all should've read the warning signs
"Caustic" means "slightly corrosive"
But me? I write my best content under pressure, this material highly explosive
None of the bars he has are just poison and he just talks sick with his motives
So I came to mop the floor with Caustic make sure he gets properly disposed of
So I brought that rat poison cause he's the type to squeak and squeal
And I brought my peoples to keep that steel if the beef gets real
So please just chill or this geek gets killed
This battle is about who's the better writer and this biter can't compete with skill
So if you wanna spar lyrically, you're no match for my artillery
Your bars filler-y, I'm a killer with dark imagery
Get scared physically
It's a violent story, your mining quarry better have the iron or be ready to start drillin' B
I'm back ho
Your lines aren't nothin' to get bowled over
If mine's bolder you get bowled over like a bull dozer
Get it? Iron, ore, mines, boulder, back hoe, bulldozer
Strip mine down into layers and y'all can see the gold closer
I'm cookin'
For that chicken, I'mma spit like a slow roaster
No holster, the snub nose in the air, that's a cold shoulder
I let one ring it rattle his cage like a goal poster
His wig get split and get pushed sideways like his combover
And normally, I'm not the type to beef with critics
I'm the type to burn your fuckin' house down to the ground with your family sleepin' in it
The last thing you'll see is me light the match to the kerosene and flick it
To be specific, if I take a trip out west it's not for scenic visit
I'm focused player, you've been nothin' but smoke and mirrors your whole career, I'm so sincere
You don't got a leg to stand on, that's a broken chair
We don't compare
You was never even top 10, you on the lowest tier
And I bet your buddies wrote more bars for this battle than you've wrote in years
And when it comes to all your Fresh Coast pals, I've been known to roast your peers
I took the chain from Dizaster and The Saurus when they were the most revered
So if the whole Fresh Coast writes for you then it's only fair
For that chain I'm on a lookout to keep in the 6ix, I just made sure his whole coast is clear
Make some fuckin' noise y'all!
So he said he's gonna kill my whole family
That's this dude keepin' it real wit me
Dude, with as many fuckin' verses as you've taken it makes sense you're from Steel City
Aye, do you guys remember when Drake was like actually at all these events?
And you can see him in the crowd he's just fuckin' happy as it gets
There was no drama back then we were just rappin' with our friends
Then you can see his face change as 'Cane gets exposed for being a massive piece of shit
He fuckin' grabbed his keys and dipped and we fuckin' haven't seen him since
So let's all congratulate him; Alex Drake, it's hip hop's known bitch
But don't feel bad kiddo at least you're not the only Drake in Canada that doesn't write his own shit
If he wants to dig up dirt me, he's just jealous cause I'm legendary
If I wanted to dig up dirt on him I'd walk to the cemetery where his mom and sister are buried
Oh my god, when it comes to this disrespect shit I swear to God I'm a visionary
So fuck your mother, bitch!
Your mother puts the fuckin' "bitch" in "obituary"
Yo...this shit just got incredibly real
Luckily for me, I don't fuckin' care how you feel
But we've been in this situation before, haven't we, Alex? So let's make a deal!
I said you can try to sucker-punch, oh my God I'll fuck you up
If they dug your little sister up she wouldn't be the only thing that stiffened up
Oh, so what your mom died, Arcane? I don't give a fuck!
You want me to quit spittin' the rest of this round? That's an extra 500 bucks!
I mean I don't know what else to say to you
They fuckin' died to get away from you!
I wrote all your shit back in the day cause on your own you wasn't capable
I mean let's face facts, half your fuckin' family died cause no one could relate to you
I guess in the last five years not that much has changed for you
I mean look at the fuckin' clothes that you've got on
I mean you're so fuckin' underground Arcane, do you feel any closer to your mom?
Yo, this fuckin' idiot used to hit my inbox like, "Yo Caustic look at all this shit I wrote for this bum."
And I was like, "No, no, no Alex...this is how it's supposed to be done."
Yo, this cat's been salty since before I got my title shot
His writing was shaky like Michael Fox, so he sent me paper like Michael Scott
It all makes sense why he needed so much assistance with his writer's block
I guess when half your family's in a coffin, it's a little hard to think outside the box
So this is it for you my guy, this round right here is do or die
It's either you or I and I'm a sick piece of shit
Dude I'll commit suicide just to go to your fuckin' family in Hell and tell 'em you said "hi"
I hope you find a condom in your next fuckin' bologna sandwich
I hope you slip into a coma after you get diagnosed with melanoma and colon cancer
I hope for the rest of your shitty-ass life, you open shows for local rappers
I hope you can't take it one day, and you call a suicide hotline...and no one answers
So I did this round for all of y'all who thought homie was more than average
I mean, it's five years after Bargate, and he's still trying to control the damage
So, no one here needs to feel bad for Little Orphan Alex
'Cause I just lit this guy up like Aurora Borealis!
Time, bitch! WHOO!