Avatar the Articulate - “If I Ruled the World”
Nas: We died to get here, where we’re at.  This generation of hip hop, we’re making a stance, we’re saying what we gotta say.  We didn’t graduate Harvard, we didn’t graduate Princeton—nothing against them niggas
Peter Rosenberg: Never heard anyone refer to Princeton as that
Nas: Yeah, they niggas too.  They ignorant as fuck.  But we real niggas that made it and we’re, we’re set trends.  Niggas is tastemakers, whatever the fuck that means.  We’re that, we’re that and then some because we know what, what this generate.  We’re all one, man.  It don’t matter.  Black, white, Asian, Saudi, it don’t matter fucking what you are.  This generation, the wise ones, this is what it is
Imagine getting baked in the States without the jakes taping
Your plates, no papers, just vapors, no waste
No smoke, no carcinogens, no chemical waste that companies
Put in tobacco, keep us strapped to the taste
No baseheads, no Feds, won’t be no crime ‘cause there’s no money
Holodecks simulate sex, so there’s no monkeys
No rape, no gas on interstates
Only solar power, showers go straight to toilet tanks
No doctors that misdiagnose just to bill
No frills, everybody chill, no Jong Ill
No nukes, no troops, no dictators to kill
No education gap crap that we instantly fill
No BPA in plastic, hard deals with no blue pills
No bills, there’s food for everyone, no reason to steal
That’s real.  It’s just some thoughts for your mind frame.  If I ruled
The world, no rappers would get plaques just to rhyme lame
If I ruled the world
I’d free all my sons
I love ‘em, love ‘em, baby
Black diamonds and pearls
If I ruled the world
Yo, uh
Now if I ruled the world, I probably really wouldn’t rule it.  I would
Just lie back with a sack and mint julips, have it
All computed, citizens could choose what the future’s root is
It’s better than being controlled by a few that’s suited
Business decisions fucking up the system.  I’ll puff the izm
And hold my head.  When I’m dead, what up with my children?
Let’s make a better place for them to live in, no BP
And Exxon fucking up rivers and our fishing
Open your eyes to the lies histories told foul
When drug companies kill and never get no trial
Cars took alcohol ‘til Prohibition made us switch to oil
For fourteen years, and there’s the biggest trick of all
Make college free and all knowledge free, no virus
No violence.  Fuck all them old policies
I’d use science to remove the wool that keeps us people blinded
Talk only facts—if it’s not that, then keep quiet
Star Trek whips phase out the planes
Underwater trains powered by magnets kind of strange
It sounds foul, but every bank exec could go downtown
Lock ‘em up in Attica and feed children in Africa
If I ruled the world
I’d free all my sons
I love ‘em, love ‘em, baby
Black diamonds and pearls
If I ruled the world