Maria Hill: The news is loving you guys. Nobody else is. There's been no official call for Banner's arrest, but it's in the air.
Tony Stark: Stark Relief Foundation?
Maria Hill: Already on the scene. How's the team?
Tony Stark: Everyone's...we took a hit. We'll shake it off.
Maria Hill: Well for now I'd stay in stealth mode, and stay away from here.
Tony Stark: So, run and hide?
Maria Hill: Until we can find Ultron, I don't have a lot else to offer.
Tony Stark: Neither do we.   Hey, you wanna switch out?
Clint Barton: No, I'm good. If you wanna get some kip, now's a good time, cause we're still a few hours out.
Tony Stark: A few hours from where?
Clint Barton: A safe house. 
Thor: What is this place?
Tony Stark: A safe house?
Clint Barton: Let's hope.  Honey, I'm home. [Barton's heavily pregnant wife, Laura walks in from the
kitchen]
Clint Barton: Hi. Company. Sorry didn't call ahead.
Laura Barton: Hey.
Tony Stark:  This is an agent of some kind.
Clint Barton:  Gentleman, this is Laura.
Laura Barton: I know all your names. 
Clint Barton: Ooh, incoming. 
Barton's Daughter: Dad! 
Clint Barton: I see her!  Hey, buddy! How you guys doing? Ooh...
Tony Stark:  These are...smaller agents.
Clint Barton: Look at your face! Oh, my goodness!
Barton's Daughter: Did you bring Auntie Nat?
Natasha Romanoff: Why don't you hug her and find out 
Steve Rogers: Sorry for barging in on you.
Tony Stark: Yeah, we would have called ahead, but we were busy having no idea that you existed.
Clint Barton: Yeah, well Fury helped me set this up when I joined. He kept it off SHIELD's files, I'd like to keep it that way. I figure it's a good place to lay low.
Laura Barton: Honey. Ah, I missed you.
Natasha Romanoff:  How's little Natasha, huh?
Laura Barton: She's...Nathaniel. 
Natasha Romanoff: Traitor. 
Steve Rogers: Thor.
Thor: I saw something in that dream. I need answers, I won't find them here. 
Peggy Carter: We can go home. 
Clint Barton: See you worried for nothing. Can't even feel the difference, can you?
Laura Barton: If they're sleeping here, some of them are gonna have to double up. 
Clint Barton: Yeah, that's not gonna sell.
Laura Barton: What about Nat and Dr. Banner? How long has that been going on?
Clint Barton: Has what? 
Laura Barton: You are so cute.
Clint Barton: Nat and...and Banner?
Laura Barton: I'll explain when you're older. Hawkeye.
Clint Barton: Oh. Okay.
Laura Barton: It's bad, right? Nat seems really shaken.
Clint Barton: Ultron has these allies, these uh, kids, they're punks really. They carry a big damn stick and Nat took a serious hit. Someone's gonna have to teach 'em some manners.
Laura Barton: And that someone be you. You know I totally support your Avenging, I couldn't be prouder. But I see those guys, those "Gods"...
Clint Barton: You don't think they need me.
Laura Barton: I think they do. Which is a lot scarier. They're a mess.
Clint Barton: Yeah. I guess they're my mess.
Laura Barton: You need to be sure that this team is really a team and that they have your back. Things are changing for us. In a few months time, you and me are gonna be outnumbered. I need... just be sure.
Clint Barton: Yes, ma'am. 
Laura Barton: I can feel the difference.
Ultron: Scream, and your entire staff dies. I could've killed you, Helen, the night we met. I didn't.
Dr. Helen Cho: Do you expect a thank you note?
Ultron: I expect you to know why.
Dr. Helen Cho: The cradle.
Ultron:  "This is the next thing, Tony."  This... is the next me.
Dr. Helen Cho: The regeneration cradle prints tissue, it can't build a living body.
Ultron: It can, you can. You lacked the materials. You're a brilliant woman, Helen. But we all have room to improve. 
Bruce Banner: I didn't realize you were waiting.
Natasha Romanoff: I would've joined you, but uh, it didn't seem like the right time.
Bruce Banner: They used up all the hot water.
Natasha Romanoff: I should've joined you.
Bruce Banner: Missed our window.
Natasha Romanoff: Did we?
Bruce Banner: The world just saw the Hulk. The real Hulk, for the first time. You know I have to leave.
Natasha Romanoff: But you assume that I have to stay? I had this, um, dream. The kind that seems normal at the time, but when you wake...
Bruce Banner: What did you dream?
Natasha Romanoff: That I was an Avenger. That I was anything more than the assassin they made me.
Bruce Banner: I think you're being hard on yourself.
Natasha Romanoff: Here I was hoping that was your job. 
Bruce Banner: What are you doing?
Natasha Romanoff: I'm running with it, with you. If running's the plan, as far as you want.
Bruce Banner: Are you out of your mind? 
Natasha Romanoff: I want you to understand that I'm...
Bruce Banner: Natasha, where can I go? Where in the world am I not a threat?
Natasha Romanoff: You're not a threat to me.
Bruce Banner: You sure? Even if I didn't just...there's no future with me. I can't ever...I can't have this, kids, do the math, I physically can't.
Natasha Romanoff: Neither can I. In the Red Room, where I was trained, where I was raised, um, they have a graduation ceremony. They sterilize you. It's efficient. One less thing to worry about. The one thing that might matter more than a mission. It makes everything easier. Even killing.  You still think you're the only monster on the team?
Bruce Banner: What, so we disappear?
Tony Stark: Thor didn't say where he was going for answers?
Steve Rogers: Sometimes my teammates don't tell me things. I was kind of hoping Thor would be the exception.
Tony Stark: Yeah, give him time. We don't know what the Maximoff kid showed him.
Steve Rogers: "Earth's Mightiest Heroes." Pulled us apart like cotton candy.
Tony Stark: Seems like you walked away all right.
Steve Rogers: Is that a problem?
Tony Stark: I don't trust a guy without a dark side. Call me old fashioned.
Steve Rogers: Well let's just say you haven't seen it yet.
Tony Stark: You know Ultron is trying to tear us apart, right?
Steve Rogers: Well I guess you'd know. Whether you tell us is a bit of a question.
Tony Stark: Banner and I were doing research.
Steve Rogers: That would affect the team.
Tony Stark: That would end the team. Isn't that the mission? Isn't that the "why" we fight, so we can end the fight, so we get to go home?
Steve Rogers:  Every time someone tries to win a war before it starts, innocent people die. Every time.
Laura Barton: I'm sorry. Mr. Stark, uh, Clint said you wouldn't mind, but, our tractor, it doesn't seem to want to start at all. I thought maybe you might...
Tony Stark: Yeah, I'll give her a kick.  Don't take from my pile.  Hello, dear. Tell me everything. What ails you? 
Nick Fury: Do me a favor. Try not to bring it to life
.
Tony Stark: Ah, Mrs. Barton, you little minx. I get it, Maria Hill called you, right? Was she ever not working for you?
Nick Fury: Artificial intelligence. You never even hesitated.
Tony Stark: Look, it's been a really long day, like, Eugene O'Neill long, so how's about we skip to the part where you're useful?
Tony Stark: You're not the director of me.
Nick Fury: I'm not the director of anybody. I'm just an old man, who cares very much about you.
Tony Stark: And I'm the man who killed the Avengers. I saw it. I didn't tell the team, how could I? I saw them all dead, Nick. I felt
it. The whole world, too. It's because of me. I wasn't ready. I didn't do all I could.
Nick Fury: The Maximoff girl, she's working you, Stark. Playing on your fear.
Tony Stark: I wasn't tricked, I was shown. It wasn't a nightmare, it was my legacy. The end of the path I started us on.
Nick Fury: You've come up with some pretty impressive inventions, Tony. War isn't one of them.
Tony Stark: I watched my friends die. You'd think that'd be as bad as it gets, right? Nope. Wasn't the worst part.
Nick Fury: The worst part is that you didn't.
Erik Selvig: I like the look. If you're going for inconspicuous, though, near miss.
Thor: I need your help. It's dangerous.
Erik Selvig: I'd be disappointed if it wasn't.
Nick Fury: Ultron took you folks out of play to buy himself time. My contacts all say he's building something. The amount of vibranium he made off with, I don't think it's just one thing.
Steve Rogers: What about Ultron himself?
Nick Fury: Ah. He's easy to track, he's everywhere. Guy's multiplying faster than a Catholic rabbit. Still doesn't help us get an angle on any of his plans though.
Tony Stark: He still going after launch codes?
Nick Fury: Yes, he is, but he's not making any headway.
Tony Stark: I cracked the Pentagon's firewall in high school on a dare.
Nick Fury: Yeah, well, I contacted our friends at the NEXUS about that.
Steve Rogers: NEXUS?
Bruce Banner: It's the world internet hub in Oslo, every byte of data flows through there, fastest access on earth.
Clint Barton: So what'd they say?
Nick Fury: He's fixated on the missiles, but the codes are constantly being changed.
Tony Stark: By whom?
Nick Fury: Parties unknown.
Natasha Romanoff: Do we have an ally?
Nick Fury: Ultron's got an enemy, that's not the same thing. Still, I'd pay folding money to know who it is.
Tony Stark: I might need to visit Oslo, find our "unknown."
Natasha Romanoff: Well, this is good times, boss, but I was kind of hoping when I saw you, you'd have more than that.
Nick Fury: I do, I have you. Back in the day, I had eyes everywhere, ears everywhere else. Here we all are, back on earth, with nothing but our wit, and our will to save the world. So stand. Outwit the platinum bastard.
Natasha Romanoff: Steve doesn't like that kind of talk.
Steve Rogers: You know what, Romanoff? 
Nick Fury: So what does he want?
Steve Rogers: To become better. Better than us. He keeps building bodies.
Tony Stark: Person bodies. The human form is inefficient, biologically speaking, we're outmoded. But he keeps coming back to it.
Natasha Romanoff: When you two programmed him to protect the human race, you amazingly failed.
Bruce Banner: They don't need to be protected, they need to evolve. Ultron's going to evolve.
Nick Fury: How?
Bruce Banner: Has anyone been in contact with Helen Cho? 
Dr. Helen Cho: It's beautiful. The vibranium atoms aren't just compatible with the tissue cells, they're binding them. And S.H.I.E.L.D. never even thought...
Ultron: The most versatile substance on the planet and they used it to make a Frisbee. Typical of humans, they scratch the surface and never think to look within. 
Steve Rogers: I'll take Natasha and Clint.
Tony Stark: Alright, strictly recon. I'll hit the NEXUS, I'll join you as soon as I can.
Steve Rogers: If Ultron is really building a body...
Tony Stark: He'll be more powerful than any of us. Maybe all of us. An android designed by a robot.
Steve Rogers: You know, I really miss the days when the weirdest thing science ever created was me.
Nick Fury: I'll drop Banner off at the tower. Do you mind if I borrow Ms. Hill?
Tony Stark: She's all yours, apparently. What are you gonna do?
Nick Fury: I don't know. Something dramatic, I hope.
Clint Barton: I'm gonna finish re-flooring that sunroom as soon as I get back.
Laura Barton: Yeah, and then you'll find another part of the house to tear apart.
Clint Barton: No. It's the last project. I promise. 
Erik Selvig: This is it. The Water of Sight.
Thor: In every realm, there's a reflection. If the water spirits accept me, I can return to my dream, and find what I missed.
Erik Selvig: The men who enter that water, the legends don't end well.