It starts here
And it ends here
Do we continue
Reject the real truth?
Most of us won't even speak to each other again
Do I still text you, pretend like we're so close friends
I say so close because we were so close
Then drifted apart, no go, I suppose
Close friends, crushes and acquaintances
Brand trends, quick rushes, future waitresses
We stand at the dock, tide is coming in
Some people close the door as I was comin in
I'm runnin in
I have been
Once loved, never hated, never fittin in
This is highschool, you clique and sit and send
Group messages blip to exclusive friends
Oh sorry it's an inside joke?
How do I flirt, facebook, click and poke?
We select, connect, text and check
Have our lives always been such a digital wreck?
Is this time analogically wrong or correct?
Is this lyrical analogy a bit of a stretch?
Is repressing insecurity the new dopeness?
If so let me wear this old mask that says:
Be cool, be in, be funny
Get sex, get status, get money
Find yourself, don't be manufactured
Like yourself before your life is fractured
Love the moment but remember the past
You know our time together went so fast uh
When we sail away from here
Away from home
Away from here
When we sail away from here
Goodbye, no fear
We cry, no tears
East coast rapper, got a west coast girlfriend
California girls, takin over the nation
Small talk life, boring people, lame classes
Athlete by day, but I never was the fastest
Yeah. Guess That's just how it goes
Tennessee weather, promises, never snows
Stuck in a boring life I gotta keep it interesting
So I reinvent myself by tryna rap and paint and sing
Soul searching, tryna find a deeper life
Talk is big but it comes at a bigger price
What I want ain't always true I gotta do what's right
What I do ain't always cool, its an internal fight
So I stay up at night
To study, read, and type
Stay on track in school, man I gotta go to college
Hallways full of future inmates who acting lawless
Title I, IB school, so I guess we're flawless
Nah we're not flawless
But we're diverse
In a good way
In a hood way
Black dudes, white dudes, and dat GSA
Can't be or say what I really wanna say
Ain't nothin goes without being ridiculed
But we're friends and these annoyances are minuscule
Wanna chase my dreams but
Oh well I am in a school
Wanna find some friends a little deeper, swimming pool
Shallow? Nah
Gallo? Hah
Goodtimes, Goodbye, GOOD rhymes yah
Kanye hayahh
Freshman waah
Babies of the building, we done saw
Everything here and back to the sunsphere
Livin with the wisdom, filled with a deeper fear
One too many risks, one too many beers
Live by the motto, wear the mask, hide the tears
When we sail away from here
Away from home
Away from here
When we sail away from here
Goodbye, no fear
We cry, no tears
The James you know, based on a true story
The people we know soon fade like glory
All that we can do is live and love it while it happens
All that you can do is honor us and chase your passion
I really wanted you all to understand what the end of this stage in out lives means to me
I started out high school thinking I had it all figured out, but pretty much nothing went the way I wanted, in the best way possible
After finally embracing my identity and proudly wearing who I am on my sleeve everyday, I made a lot of amazing friends who have made these years probably the best of my life so far
Despite this, we graduate and enjoy our last summer, and then it is over for a lot of us. We may never even see each other again
So what is the point in these fleeting relationships? A question I struggled with for a while, and now I know
There doesn't have to be a point. The point is we were us. Our togetherness and unmatched spectacularity leaves us all with a fulfillment for this stage in our lives
Now it is time to sail away and go our separate paths, but not to forget. Never to forget