I said "no moral victories", bar none, facts
Y'all know me as that Christian guy that don't curse or keep a large gun strapped
I came to knock him off with punchlines, I put the bars on that
I showed up to Gully vers' 'Ganik to snap - unlike Marv Won's hat!
Once they dropped the flyer I knew the fans would be interested
So who do y'all think gonna get a W? A? R.D.?
You ain't gotta respond...the answer was in the question!
I'm back!
Franchise got an appetizer, you getting a few dishes
So, you one of the core vets
Cool...I came to drop the top like the roof missing
You knew I was nice, it was ever clear on your persona
Don't play the fool with us
In other words, I can see the proof across your face...like you couldn't afford the school pictures!
It's Team Gully, they don't know what to do with us
I hate you feel you had to stoop in this
Cause what I write; stupendous
It's a walk-in triple, watch
Y'all think Tommy Pickles' pops
The bars were made to toy with you
It's like Stu penned this,  I'm too different
And you getting all type of work
Washed-up Team 'Ganik
Half of y'all need Life Alert!
That's facts, don't take it past rap
I don't care if you don't like something
I said Life Alert 'cause in this battle era
Your career is falling, and you can't get back up without pushing the right button!
The public ask if I'm handicapped 'cause my belief in God
My response?  If I've won seven battles already, I feel like I can beat the odds!
Real, spill, so which box you want?
Let's make a deal, Deal: I feel gifted
Me vers' a teacher with no class? Let's get to field tripping
You hot? I kill-switch it
We the same color but built different
Your hand cock, feel free to Will Smith it
I don't reload magnums
You just met a Christian who would come out swinging: I'm Tim Tebow batting
I brought you this L, I'm taking the W, feel like I'm geo cacheing
3-0 spazzing
I'm fed up!
They say you set your punches up well, well I punch in my set ups
And I can teach you the way to throw jabs
I don't fear contenders
These things career-enders
Tomorrow, your Linkedin account gon' read "Stay-At-Home Dad"!
I'm wild different and such
I talk sick , fire, crowd lifting  him up 
We ain't strapped out here like when you pile kids in a truck
But protect your lid like a child sipping his cup
Cause that punchline will turn Real Deal to "Real down on his luck"
What up?
You too old reel/Real, black/white movie
You getting killed/kilt for playing; bagpipe music
These will  put him down, the Shaq type or jack knife movie
Meet the new ticket, you just a mag stripe to him
You don't fly the flag high truly
One day you KOTD the next day you a Smack White groupie
You act type goofy
I got one shot, Don Knotts
I'm too cold, bomb pops, so stop sleeping; alarm clocks
Cause this a rap and you getting a raw deal like half-price sushi!
I'm nice!
You not a chef, you a teacher
I don't care how you feeling Trevor
You can't be considered a chef in battle rap, if view wise you ain't never put a meal together
Fuck a tier system, my new objective is to get cheddar
I done barred out with everyone, from bottom tier rappers to trend setters
I showed up every time for y'all, for a thousand, bringing my best effort
I was doing Everything for a band like Trent Reznor
Now you got one of my biggest fans to steal the scraps from my table?
Well, I ain't playing with the boy like "Cat's In The Cradle"
I saw your little blog, I watched you go off on this little spiel
But haven't you been telling league owners to book you, you sound like a mix between Saga and Real Deal?
These are facts, yup, you sinning right now
Fuck Aaron Ward, I'm airing Ward, praise for the full evidence
You a white rapper that uses angles to break people down, that sound familiar?
You Real Deal but the Old Testament
So fuck is you talking about? Pussy, I fathered your sound
You just stole my style, then you holy-watered it down
Your objective isn't changing other's fortunes with The Bible
"God is good", so stop using his name in vain as a ploy to make it viral
He's got a video that says "White Christian Rapper Destroys Street Rapper", you as corny as that title
Plus you obsessed with me, and ain't it against your little religion here to worship other idols?
I seen him in Pittsburgh, facts, he said, "Real, you one of my favorites
Cause the angles that you take are slick."
What's that proverb? You can catch one for him or you can teach a man a way to fish?
Ironic, he found a bigger pond, and now, it's the new fish you try to bait me with?
'Ganik was like, "Yo Real, these young kids is dying to see you."
Well, I'm John Cena with that Make-A-Wish
It's Gully vers' Organik and it kinda does sound like David vers' Goliath
But I'm a different god, I gave birth to this whole new wave like I'm Poseidon
He says "Turn the other cheek" is the real reason he ain't no type of violent
Truth is, he's just shaky with the hands like Tom Hanks in Saving Private Ryan
He said, quote, "I got here without relying on words like "itch" with a 'B' in the front"
That was fire!
It was not
That was not
Talk that shit, what's next? "Gosh darn it", "H.E. double hockey sticks"?
You're an undercover Stan like American Dad!
You a problem? I dealt with more of them than a therapist has
Let me clear this shit up, like a Claritin tab
We the '92 Dream Team
That makes you Laettner, the white Christian here to carry our bags
The fucking errand/Aaron boy
You Christian rappers are the biggest fraud
And y'all are the crowds they prey on
They acting like they shedding light or some shit, like they Akon
You built a small buzz Aaron and it ain't take long
That's real slick, think Key & Peele skit
You brought a teacher here to fuck Aaron's name up like A-A-RON!
So, let me get this straight
I saw you in Pittsburgh?
Facts!
That's crazy bro, I've never seen you in Pittsburgh ever
It's almost like you have to reach for the facts
I understand you brought up foul language and that's your signature move
But what would I need to curse if/cursive y'all don't even teach that in class
Straight up I appreciate the opportunity Real...Organik
But if y'all process fake that man made up in the last round
You'll realize ain't much about him real...organic
Now, you're an alcoholic elementary school teacher
If that isn't golden
So ab nutrition or Pabst Blue Ribbon, what kind of six pack you promoting
What's your 40 pound Deal? 'Bout 5 PM?
As y'all can tell I got issues with Trev's course
So I'mma let the air out
Cause ever since that quarter flipped I knew you weren't bred thorough
Let's get to beating this dead horse
Now you not violent
You a gym teacher
Stop acting like in your circle, you lift up and a pair are shooting the building
You get kids in a big circle, and y'all lift up a parachute in the building!
Now you not violent
You a gym teacher
Stop acting like when you reach for the metal, the .44 will blow a hole in my ribs
The only time you ever reach for the metal...is when you're trying to lower the goals for your kids
Daylyt, how is he in Dot Mobb...and PTA at the same time?
I'm having a laugh
So let me get this straight
Open house, the parents file in, they packed in the class
And, after leaving, you tell Mr. Tompkins, "Johnny's doing real well."
And get the urge to start smacking his-
Now you not violent!
You a crowd pleaser
The type to rap on stage to win 'em over
And, in the same breath, tell QP you gonna shoot his son outta his stroller
You know, the type to grieve the loss of two women that were great
Straight up, I hate that feeling
I pray for comfort and healing for your days
I bet they looking down on you, grinning in that place while you honor them
By telling 100 Bulletz you gonna violate his lady, and her eyeliner gon' look like a widow at a wake
That's a disgrace
That was fire!
I understand that was fire
But you go from book bag to hood pass to anything for a good laugh
Not me, every bar is the impact
Whether battling comes with cream or not, I'll still smoke a cat, no filter
Cause when you got something you wanna express so much you don't wanna hold it back
So stop people, please don't get me stirred up with this fake stuff, we not equal
And part of me wants to sit back and laugh a lot, eh
I can't put up with this half and half
Now I know a lot of y'all prolly looking at me like, "Son that's wack"
Y'all awake?
Don't worry, y'all gon' think that mug fire when I 
I said every bar he stuck  impact
Whether battling comes with the *cream* or not I'll still s*mocha* cat
No *filter* when you got something you want to express so  much you don't hold it back
Stop people, *stirred* up with the fake stuff, not Equal
Sit back and laugh a lot, eh , Half & Half
Let's get back to rap
You not getting through me, son be the face of the brand
Sheesh, partna!
Obese toddler: you not fitting 2T
It was getting too deep
I was talking to you, now I'm talking at you, a body
That's what I'm going for in my main stage debut like Auston Matthews, walking past you
I'm too strong, seals are deadly , just sit there dude
Y'all think Ric Flair move, chopping block
I'll put your whole group on: I got a Deal for everybody
So don't ever question my skill
I left care or concern for you back home on a night stand, right next to my chill
I'm straightforward, you play Norbes
Refer to anything pressed to my grill, I'll knock the hip hop culture clean out you
That's to the point Real don't even recognize Real!
Go ahead, spit your out-of-context Bible jokes and pretend that you way too clever
Crazy, Trevor Weller, battling me already made you better
Y'all think I was gonna let the little Ward talk get me?
He clowned me for being a gym teacher, what do you do?
"I'm an application analyst out in the bec-"
Shut up! We bored already!
You a cubical worker, you give other people tasks for them to divvy up
Same bullshit work jargon like, "Hey, thank God it's Friday, right? I could really use a cup of joe to pick me up."
I'm the most popular person in my building
Every time they see me, man, the kids go nuts
My dodgeball tournaments are legendary
My kickball games be lit as fuck!
You got me fucked up, like Jesus Christ in every depiction
Catch a two-piece and take flight like President Nixon
They in they little rap groups like, "Oh my God, Real Deal, have you checked the predictions?"
I'm not surprised, battle rap has become wrestling
Why wouldn't they give the edge to a Christian?
That's why, really shouldn't listen to the shit that your boys say
Get with the program, I'm Lattimore in the midst of a 'roid rage
Even Jehovah's a witness
How I'm bell ringing, this shit could get a Mel Gibson
The oy vey, I rap hotter, I'm Atwater, G1 hit will turn a Christian Okoye
They said, "Run that back.", I said, "Why? I'm the king of sports bars."
KC, I could bury Ward with a whole 'nother running back
Math from the Keystone, they'll have to dispatch all police zones
I'll cut his body up, send his limbs to his mama and the other half back to the priest's homes
You get beaten to a pulp for thinking life is always peachy
I'm 'bout sending messages, not just you though, I'm trying to do a CC
Like if your man's 'bout that loyalty, he riding for you, easy
These hands deadly, he can take the cross for you like Simon of Assisi
You from Kansas City, right? So you on some Strange shit
One too many Caribou Lou's
Boy wilding out before the third like the terrible twos
Throw hands, I'm daring you to
That pick you up ain't tiramisu
It's cuffs and collared in, show you your crib from an aerial view
Your wifey let me smash, these are also facts, and thought she was gon' kick back with my T-shirt
I told her, "Girl, you gotta leave."
All of a sudden, bitch has a demeanor
"No, no," I said, "Open mouth, not open house. Don't try to chit chat with the teacher."
I send her home with a Yankee candle and a gift basket from Jeter
I'm just saying, if it's wedding vows bro, let me let you down slow
I met her once: she tried to take the meat out like a veggie calzone
She don't wrestle house shows, but she with the head like Al Snow
I'm sorry, forgive me, I'm spacy
I took the head like Gwyneth Paltrow
You only on this stage right here because I allow you
Everything about you is fake, you shouldn't have showed up like the round two
You'se a motherfucking fraud, this motherfucker is a clown shoe
Even the team you repping, you a Christian, ain't nothing Gully about you
They told me Real was the realest in Real state
Well that's cool, I'm in a different zone
And whether/weather I see you reign/rain or not, remember this isn't snow
I can get a loan, trespass on my property brother, this mark get crashed
My pen amazing, renovation, I get to slipping homes/holmes
Stick and go, let's go
Y'all should've knew siding with him would get him debt
Right on there, I'm too versatile, you get caught slipping and socked when I slide on squares
I believe in the dukes, that's called "punchline irony"
Cause it was felt went I laid it down but at the same time it put a leak in his roof
You seasoned to boot, I was crown molded for this
Nothing but classics I swear
It's crazy, 'cause your career on a downward spiral, and I know how to rap around stares!
I'm still renovating, insulating
I promised the fans I wouldn't vent 'til late in the battle, well let's get this image straightened
If QP been on Maury, I guarantee you been on an episode of Hardcore Pawn
You look like the type of rapper who shows up to events, stands outside and sells your CD out of a cardboard box
Whoa, wait a second
Yeah, I was chopping it up with Cortez and Clips at World Dom' after the event
The show was great
I turned around, bumped into Trevor, and he hit me with that, "Well, they cost ten but...I can let it go for eight."
I remember it vivid, I gave you the ten though
I got to the whip, me and Promise got to track two, skipped to the track that Daylyt produced, and we let it go...out the window!
This the end though
On this slate or music, your career has come to a screeching halt and that's pitiful
Now this teacher missed the bliss of being relevant and that's exactly why he's dying in the building to me off that principle
When I was younger, I had dreams of being a hooper
You know making millions, it was crazy
Cause I even look like White Chocolate
But I remember that night, I was in the basement chilling
And my brother Kannon was passing off the elbows like Jason Williams
At that time, I promised myself I would never glorify the way they living
Why talk about the past when you can help define the future
Meanwhile you get up here and waste rounds with throwaways
Man, hold up, like you some kind of sewer
No, you WASTE ROUNDS, MANHOLE up...you some kind of sewer!
My only competition is my flesh: Attack of the Clones
What you pack; hypocrisy, what I'm packing is hope
You battle cats for respect, I battle cats for the throne
You teach a class for a check...I'm in a class of my own!
I did not come to get- actually I got a little personal with you
And that's only 'cause I feel like in life you might be going through some personal issues
Just know, surrender to God, be obedient
It won't change overnight, but the rest will fall in line
I appreciate the opportunity
God is good
So, every time someone says a gun bar, you scoff with a total lack of respect
You try to break down the whole approach and come after they neck
It's fucking battle rap, Aaron! They're not actual threats!
Plus again, you're from Kansas City
Your scene is only relevant because of a Mac and a Tech
You predict street rappers will talk about guns, like you're some detective who's uncovered a link
If you find that impressive, quench your thirst for something to drink with cleaning products under your sink
A fucking rapper's name will be Young Drug Dealing Murderer
And he'll be like, "Let me guess...you 'bout to talk about drug dealing and murdering!"
What the fuck did you think!?
What's next? Water is wet, and Hugh Hefner probably dipped the pen in company ink!?
I said, so not only are you a Christian but you're a prophet...wow
But you battle for no profit, that's some crazy shit
That's ironic, like Colin Kaepernick suiting up for the Patriots!
So just so I can make him sick, I'mma turn to the steel like Peter Rasputin
Brace yo' self to see cap shot like the knees on Pat Ewing
I told the Smack crowd if I blacked out, there would be a mass shooting
For you, that's still the truth
But it's Dylann Roof: there will be a Mass shooting
Cause the Tommy got a kick like Best Of The Best
Black magazine go to work like an Ebony rep
That's why I put it before the Smith like Kenny "The Jet"
We can get it shaking with the hands for nothing like a gentleman's bet
You still doing this without commission cause you ain't a official and they don't cut checks to cadets
You beefing with the general, so now he thinking he got an S on his chest
He tried to break me down for three rounds with angles
Nevertheless, I was just praying for one bar, like a side chick's pregnancy test!
But you like that scheming shit, I got you
And the both on Ted Logan
Fuck with my dawg: I'm John Wick
He trying to play hardball, I'm at a different speed
You can't be the one to talk shit
But let's play Devil's Advocate
If you do win this battle, I'll still send a hot one whistling through your wig
I'm Shane Falco in The Replacements
My homie from the squad is on the turf just kicking it with the Sig
They like, "Real, I rock with schemes but, honestly, Keanu Reeves? I don't know about that."
Let me explain
Just 'cause they love me everywhere, and, half the time, I don't know how to act!
Put him out his misery, shoot this clown like a circus stunt
You pussy, you act big then turn to a Buddy like Sherman Klump
Ball game, let your man advance like a perfect bunt
This right hook will turn his pearly fronts to a Kirsten Dunst
A fifth will do her
A big game hunter: I'm out here hitting cougars
So many rides home, I own stock in Lyft and Uber
I tell bitches to give me space, then explain it to 'em like a physics tutor
I'm too savage like I had a threesome with Topanga and Winnie Cooper!
I said, it's your boy, RD The Chef
I make sure every line cook 'cause this is my meal ticket
A. Ward, praise Lord that you lost to somebody real...deal with it!