Nice haircut...
Dont' take this wrong way, ’cause I'm glad you're still breathin’
My thing is...you survived somethin' I don't actually believe in
It's no accidents in this life
Everything happens for a reason
That's the reason you alive, son
'Cause this ain't no accident neither...but I'mma make it look like one
You’re gonna die somethin’ bad...
But because you the homie, here's some advice:
Don’t fuck this up - you're just gonna provoke me
You see the smoke that they sеt out for me? Just a smokescreen
Front-row seats, but hold your hеad up, young'un, it's still a nosebleed
Shit, I can barely see Jerzey  from here
With Suge, I set the bar
Killed him, but at least he losin’ weight
Me, I'm still at large
Now it's Jerooz - no, LaRusso
He was a fighter, now he flippin' cars
Biggest farce, like we can't see you for the junkie that you really are
I'm thinkin' Eisa: you just meltin' down some white bitch like a Disney star
I get it, y'all
I went from mad slow to rappin' too fast though
Every prediction: "You can't fuck wit' Raivon!"
Is that so?
Well, we done made him reevaluate
All the niggas they try to validate
Low, mid, top - fuck tiers! I just retaliate
The MadKing
This is the most copied style vs. a style you can't
The irony...you think you disrespectin' me wit' every "BOW" you make
I shook his pride!
That nigga Twork dyin', he only look alive
Almost died 'cause his eyes kept closin'
Well, then he shouldn't drive
Nigga, please
More irony: outta nowhere, this nigga bleeds!
Oh, you Piru thuggin'? Like I give a fuck
We in the West, it's most niggas outside who doesn't
I'm lookin' in yo' eyes, not that rag or the signs you chuckin'
'Cause nine times outta 10, it's a nigga your size who tucks it
Yeah, this finna be a bag!
I knew that before I ever seen the crash
Niggas shot up your whip when you wasn't in it...even your enemies are trash
After ya last scene on Caffeine, I knew your energy would crash
Bro, you gon' fuckin' die!
Like this cat'll peel a  nigga cap
Bro, you a fuckin' lie
Get ignant, 'cause I could coon  too
But with Wing, it's a butterfly!
Nigga, how 'bout it?
Been outside, callin' all of you clowns out it
"Nitewing? Ain't that a sidekick?"
Yeah, nigga, I round houses!
Get SoundClouded: pushed underground
I ain't playin' wit' you
Mad as King, bring a whole magazine for my anger issues
"That's a warning!
Somethin' wrong under the hood: check engine light?"
Stupid nigga, you know that I'm a mechanic, right?
Let him brandish a weapon
I'll pull a arm out like, "Hand me those wrenches."
I'm talkin' three .8s , .9 milli': I can go standard or metric
You a man wit' a death wish
Set-trip, get him beamed up
Said he boolin'
I'll catch him while he coolin'...and he freeze  up
Fuck Twork!
Said it stand for "thug work"
How does that sound?
Shit, I was a thug lookin' for work before these SMACK rounds
Why you think I chose mechanics? They wasn't doin' any backgrounds!
The fuck you gon' rap 'bout!?
Can't tell me that my craft is weak
Maybe my wardrobe? I'm still new to this fashion thing
See, I was never the nigga with the fresh fit and the jacket mink
I was the nigga that walked up on you like, "Nice jacket - mink!"
Madness? Please!
You don't know what madness means
You seen my madness streak
I'd pass this geek even if I only had two weeks
Now tell me that's a reach
Like every jab you eat won't have you reachin' down the bathroom sink to grab your teeth
But you gon' rap with me...bro, how?
No crowd, yo' style great for Volume, but it's low-dial
I asked the Goonies, he only at his best when it's sold out
Roadhouse: they wanna see you bring back that old bouncer
That's crazy, 'cause if you Pat Swayze, I only see you as a Ghost now!
Facebook, convict: I gotta do another pro foul !
That's how this go
I'mma drop you, stand you back up to get dropped some mo'
You unconscious? I don't care
They yell, "Stop it!" No!
I'm tryna kick you back up like I done dropped the soap!
It's time to go!
But this time...try not to choke
Mad...
I say yo...
Not too long ago, I was in the hospital doin' pain and sufferin'
Tried to come back to battle rap, I told Smack, "Bring me somethin'"
He said, "Jey The Nitewi-" - I tried to change the subject
I'm only battling you 'cause every nigga in this game was duckin'
You think I'm bluffin'?
You think I chose to battle you, nigga?
We ain't even in the same discussion
They usually do what the star commands, like Buzz Lightyear
They done literally gave me Wing for nothin'!
This seems redundant!
I know this bitch'll quit
You gon' come here wit' angles about a bunch of shit I did
They don't need a documentary to know who I am, Jey , 'cause This Is It!
Pistol lift!
How y'all got him beatin' me!? He's a little kid!
Okay, by a show of hands, how many of y'all say this nigga wins?
Okay, I see one Nite stan, and you won't ever see this bitch again!
This is in!
Who's talkin' for me?
Who told you to see my name and start walkin' towards it?
What, you thought my bars was normal? Thought I was all performance?
'Til they put Jerzey  on a Nite  like Martin Lawrence!?
When we started doin' this!?
This my return - you done gave me this old lame?
Why treat me like a benchwarmer when I played in the most games?
I asked for Daylyt, Tay Roc, B. Dot
Everything you were sayin' was so lame
Then you give me a nigga from Washington!?
I'm tired of playing with no name!
Cold game! The supply is gone
I ain't sayin' you trash, my nigga, but you ain't on the time I'm on
You tried this wrong
Lemme get your rhymin' strong
Like....9 is palmed, slide wit' jawns
Send the guys in for him
Have 'em waitin' outside for Jey ...nah, that line too long
Fire arm!
You finna die likely!
This where it gets worst at, Nite , like bronchitis
Palm prices
Soon as you go to "Mr. Anderson: red or blue pill?", I'mma answer that wit' the .9s likely
Straps to his palms striking
Guns are both red and blue like Time Crisis
I'mma ERRT! Drive-by and-
Wait...you told Griz because of your Samoan traits, he would die over weight
Wait...any drugs you got, I'm finna make 'em mine now
I swear to God, for some 'caine, I'll flip Jey upside-down
Now...that was somethin' I was hoping you would get
You know, you know, J, cane upside d-
Totally legit
Back to the drugs - I heard homie is a lick
I'll pull up to his crib
You know when you leave clothes at a shorty crib? I'm slowly movin' in!
BOOM! Kick the door!
See the King and take the crown up off him
Like, "Jey, if anybody don't get down, we sparkin'."
Tie 'em up, duct tape over they mouth...
"MGHGMMGHGMMMMM!"
If you don't tell me what I wanna hear, you gon' be soundin' awful
He like, "Twork! I can tell you where the pounds and bark is!"
Rip the duct tape off his mouth - now you're talkin'!
Surround the closet! I need more provided
His daughter cryin', he hopin' I switch the topic
Grab her up, and tell him, "Tell me what I wanna hear or I'm holdin' this bitch up hostage."
You got options
Either give up the shit, or I'mma put the chrome to this kid and pop it
If shit come between Jey  and ki's , it's over for Lil' Mama
Bomb 'em!
I see you don't care dyin'
You see this big-ass gun in her hair look like a hair dryer
Eht-eht-eht! You better not dare try it
I found another way to cook Wing...whatever I air fry y-
Nah, I'm gettin' dead tired
Listen, as soon as you gimme what I want, I'mma kill everybody!
I'm bein' too honest
I'mma leave this bitch pissed off 'cause everybody in the room shot up
Put a beam on the tool poppin'
I'm hittin' everything the light touches like Mufasa!
Tool poppin'-
Listen, I could aim at a crowd of people and still shoot proper
I know who to kill by how you dress - yo' shoes chopped up
Soon as I see dad jeans and big T...BOOM-BLAKA!
Move out the mothafuckin' way 'fore this .40 dump
That was ran-dom ...like Forrest Gump!
I got shorty stuck, you better match this
You just got up here to talk about my accident? That shit was very tragic
Yo' head get cracked in
Beretta clappin'
You gon' walk around with a glass pupil if I ever clap this
That's one bullet in the eye  object: sound like a wedding crasher
I'm strapped in!
I'M STRAPPED IN!
I'll clap you in a- 
Fuck that!
I'mma come to Federal Way, Washington and clap you to Tacoma!
You...A GONEEEEEEEERRRR!
I'm BACK!
A GONER!
.40 about to bang him!
Have his fam' rushin' him to the hospital
Blood pourin' and got 'em shaken
They anxious
His mom, sister, cousin, aunt wildin', "We need more of the doctors! Save him!"
He like, "Please excuse my dear aunt Sa-"
Somebody needs to order a operation
Glock'll bang him!
And while you laid up, I'm wit' ya freak bitch
Just between me and you, she's decent
She said, "Jey ain't fuckin' wit' you, Twork, not even in the least bit."
I'mma let you in on a little secret...
I see this bitch every night, constantly, while you wonderin' where your freak went
Now I don't want no altercations
She be blowin' my phone up, I'm like, "Shorty, I'mma call you later.
Oh yeah? Ya don't say?"
She said she gon' come over with the gang and do us all a favor
She said you just a mechanic!
Yeah, you can work on my check engine light, but what you gon' do once we alternate her !?
Larkin bangin', soon as I see the nigga
50 in the .30: I'll get a speeding ticket
Nina grippin'
I'm ridin' 'round lookin' for him until I complete the mission
'Til this casket filled, I can't take a break: I need a minute!
Jersey!
I heard even Drake made a donation
Shout out to Drake
I found that kinda funny at first
"Champagnepapi"? No surprise he throwin' money at Twork 
I liked you better in your early days, back when I only knew you as Twork somethin'
Before your name bubbled up, before your performances got wobbly
Before you took a battle just to fuck it up
Before the whole Twork  Team was clappin' behind you, gassin' you up
Talkin' up like on every card, he be  'Backin' It Up'
Back when you had your own work
Before you took your little bro's work
Actin' like you was makin' the style - y'ain't  low, Twork 
The snapback...before you was makin' them SMACK racks
Snatchin' that old purse
That's the GOAT Twork
Like Adina Howard can still get it, we need that old Twork 
Bro, that's for sure
"Excuse? Miss?
I saw you from across-"
Yeah, that was hard
But now it's just Pills and Automobile problems, it sound like Capsule Corp
You been cappin' too hard
Actin' like ya ain't gettin' complacent
Chokin' because the niggas y'all gave him are nameless
But now the niggas wit' names gotta chase you
That don't make sense
I said, it must be yo' ass, 'cause it ain't the niggas you chasin' wit' ya punk ass
Congratulations...on bein' the only thing Ave was chasin' wit' his drunk ass
Made Swamp look like "He might actually be nice" with your dumb ass
Yeah, that wasn't it
Had you lookin' like a bummy bitch
Straight homeless, Twork  pushin' a shopping cart like Russia lit
Forgot your bars? Bro, you the most absently-mindful excuse of a rapper
I'm mad my tax dollars revived you
Tell the fans all these lies
You bein' "strapped in" a lie, too
That's what got the top of your head lookin' like your cat doesn't like you
I shouldn't have to remind you...that you better than this
This all comin' from me, nigga
I taught you better than this
Oh, now you comin' back...to shake that monkey off your back?
I hope you come around, you fuckin' clown
Prob'ly need the bread 'cause the car insurance ain't comin' down
Runnin' rounds over and over again wit' that chopper style
Fuck this battle - his real challenge prob'ly havin' to 'Buss It' now
I'm back on my bullshit
They put you in here wit' the best
When I'm done, I'mma text Norbes to wire transfer the rest
You in the dirt, bitch
Nicki Minaj: I'll leave Twork  stiff
After breakin' his jaw
If Jey gettin' caught, it's house arrest, strap around the ankle, tryna shake an assault
Your new tape gettin' bought...they should be thankin' you, Raivon
They gon' buy it just to remember you after the King, Von
Idris Elba: I know these white folks ain't lettin' me make Bond
Oh, now I'm spazzin'...
Don't let that mayo glizzy shit fool you, nigga: the combo nasty
Get knocked into last week
Y'all better start leavin' me alone!
Every punch harder than tryin' to talk to Beasley on the phone!
The substance is silent
I'll let the crowd reaction cover the violence
The same way you let stardom cover your eyelids from the fuckin' truth
Yeah, they lovin' you
From how you be punchin' and wildin', jumpin' and holla-in'
Look like you 'bout to run off wit' another deposit!
Nigga, I'm from that island
"Look alive"? Bro, I'll punch you dead in your face
You don't want war
You can yell 'til your voice hoarse and you red in the face
I'm a regular nigga
I pay my taxes and I'm from Federal Way
I took my real life, made it rhyme, and then sped up the pace
I got white neighbors, two beautiful kids, and I'll punch you dead in the face if you ain't hear me the first time
See, most niggas be exaggeratin'
I don't have the patience, to craft some random-ass bullshit from my imagination
"I'll shoot you while you takin' a shit!"
Yeah, that's funny when it's only thought about
It's even funnier when the same niggas is askin' me to stall 'em out
Fuck is you talkin' 'bout!?
All trash! You a lame nigga!
Hall Pass: a loud  strange nigga!
All that energy don't hit the same, nigga
After the car crash, what's finna change, nigga?
From the SMACK events to the accident, you still the same nigga
It ain't no Nu Jerooz
What would your legacy be like? Same as that fuckin' Subaru
Mad...
This shit got me stressed
'Cause just like me, I see potential in you
But somehow I feel you tried your best
I'm not impressed
Too repetitive
Just angle...after angle, same cycle
That's why I brought extra wit' me like a laundromat
I should Bounce, 'cause I ain't got much to Gain
From a nigga who takes dirty laundry and put his All in it
I'm tired of that
Who honors that?
When did you start this style rappin'?
You used to be live-action
It's quite tragic
The King must've got that off behind my back like Bron pass-
Let's time-travel
I literally watched you tweet and ask the fans for confirmation to try tactics
I died laughin'
You do the math! You have no angles
If you knew them points had zero value, then why ask us ?
These guys backwards, no rules upheld
At least wit' this lazy-ass style, I can never see you losin' stealth
You gon' be goin' to these crews for help
Your battles won't be moved from shelves
Practically divin' in the vault: you done screwed  yourself!
Renew yourself, or just watch
This the true essence of hip-hop
Yes, the fans love you now, but keep battlin' back-to-back fuckin' up, that's where that shit stop
And four good years  go on quick, like a pit stop!
Just watch!
Wit' this sad-ass flow, how proud could you make yo' mother?
You fuckin' corny!
You proud to profess you broke?
Ladies and gentlemen, the most electrifying style in battle rap
I remember seeing and thinking..."Well, I wouldn't wanna battle that."
But then I battled that...30 fucking times on the way up
Got the nerve to compare a perfect Jey  with a layup
We both classed as different, and I fucking hate it
Because you stole your style
I'm surprised ya ain't Crip-walkin' wit' the flow by now
You took Lu moves, then switched sides
That what yo' shit 'bout
Had Castro like, "Hell no. Sonny sold us out."
Well, damn, nigga...that's how you doin' your side people?
Castro, after taking your style, the guy leaves you?
That's fucked up
With friends like that, who needs white people?
That might be inappropriate...or appropriation
I mean, it's arguable
Twork return in the spotlight now 'cause it's more marketable
I knew all in due time, they'd find out it didn't start wit' you
From the sounds to the bounce, Twork really got it all from Lu
This is what I want y'all to do...for me
Think of all his moves, 'cause he took all of them
The Bigga .9
The Little .9
The Scarecrow
The Revolver Spin
The Uptown
The Downtown
The First Take
The Recap
The eeert
The skkeeert
You prolly should've let him keep that
The nnk-nnk
The chk-chk
The Bull Dog
The Joe Budden
The Weird Nigga
The Janitor
The Clearview
The Hold Button
Bro you fuckin'- I can't even call you "trash" cause that sound insane
The way you recycle I can't even throw you out the same
Bigga .9?
That should've told us that the rounds the same
I'm a different caliber
Cause Smack, unlike who you got me
I don't recycle my bars, I just recycle the bodies
Cause like I said, I battled niggas doin' the shit that you do
Which gets me confused on how y'all niggas expect me to lose
Now you could argue that they never could do what you ever could do
The problem is, I've already met the maker I'm sendin' you to
You a carbon copy
Shell of what you used to be, even your carbon copy
Y'all see where we are?
Everybody just tryin' to be Twork, there's barely even a 
The rap niggas who don't conform, y'all don't even regard
Before COVID y'all used to roast us for goin' deeper in thought
Congratulations Raivon, you done cheapened the sport
That's why we aren't the same
All they want is moments now, they wanna feel somethin', they don't want the pain
They want the BAOW
They wanna be "Wooow" by your Mickey ass charm
They don't want Jermaine
They call me "SoSo" deaf  to what I'm producin'
Opera music, I always leave y'all on a high note but y'all noddin' to it
He don't even write shit down
RELAX!
He don't even write shit down every round he puts his last minute thoughts into
And y'all been eatin' outta this nigga's palms cause he thinks y'all are stupid
And it's crazy, how life reflects art
Most of our lives we wasn't fathered through it
And here we are lockin' arms with the wrong influence
You can stop me whenever I'm wrong but I know y'all gon' prove it
Yeah, I know, he gon' get it inside the buildin' cause he provides a feelin'
Meanwhile I'm just some guy they call "King", castle with a higher ceiling
They never mind him, set aside by the deaf and blinded
Within a time when, pill poppin' and smokin' away yo' mind has been normalized then
Y'all gon' try to tell me y'all "got Twork 30"
Hehehe
That's only funny cause what that rhymes with
But you are the chosen
Mr. Anderson I set this all in motion
You talkin' to The Architect we seen all your moments
And that's all they want though
So a sound of silence for what you all condoning
While I'm just holdin' my balls in front of Yoshi G for bein' too thought provokin'
Let's turn up the volume
So niggas can see the greatness made
In a 1984 dystopia waste of space
Until a rookie with a New Jersey on the 23rd became a great
But I think the 23rd-
It was hard but I think the 23rd would better serve as an expiration date
What's the takeaway?
I fall short today I'm not worried
Cause it's a marathon and in the long run none of your gun bars can bargain with the test of time
That's why...
'We Takin' Over'
And you're like Wayne when he in the church
Cause when we all look back we'll see the King had a better verse
Mad
I'm glad we on the west coast
Some of the best smoke
Had to get the body of Nite  and drag in  like Deathstroke
TEC blow
I only say that cause...I know they want that gun bar haymaker Twork so let's go
Talkin' to you like that last round made me sick to my stomach, I had to give you that pep though 
I wanted to start this round like, "Desi is dumpin'"
But nah...you like 6'1"?
240/250?
Heavy for nothin'
You built like a Teletubby
I could punch you square in the stomach, end of discussion
I ain't even gotta kill no more
Them LLC's been sparkin' my interest
I started a business
I'm talkin' automated messages when you call up the henchmen
Like, "One for English, Two for Spanish, uno momento."
You press three, they comin' down for all the redemption
Press four? They gonna turn up after night  like an afterhours spot
And that's if you know your party's extension
I'm palmin' the biscuit
Shots at your father relentless
.380's bang, I will kill yo' dad and ask, "Who died and made you King?"
Thang'll bang
I let two through too
Nah, we in L.A.? I'ma slide with a few new goons
Nah, deuce deuce to him
Nah, Louieville Slugger to his dome
I don't wanna kill this dude too soon
So as soon as I see Nite  club in  his head the boom boom room
Live action
My nigga Jey the Nitewing, you tired of rappin'
These niggas man...
Elevate, three shots
What you get this from B. Dot?
I'm like, get caps harder
This nigga look like a fat Saga
You get these from Marshalls?
{chokes}
You wasn't here when we had a line
You wasn't there Irving Plaza
You wasn't there for grudge matches
You wasn't there when Rex battled Shine
When Suge dissed Proof you wasn't there like an alibi
I am the guy
I commend you, cause they sound like me, you just don't sound like them
I've done so much for the culture
Tapped Smack's pockets, pulled the hoodie down, jumped over a human body, niggas sound just like me
You can see the things around I've done
I've talked so much I've broken records I'm startin' to sound like one
This pound might dump
Or the Eagle will dump
Nah, y'all knew I was gonna be on Caffeine kickin' his ass
I know you wasn't believin' this chump
Of course I'm gonna be in front of these white people cookin'
Wing ain't seasoned enough
Jersey