You know I love you, honest I do
And I hope like the devil, baby, that you love me, too
I love you, I love you, love you, love you, love you
Oh darlin', I do, girl
1958 —  1958 was a hell of a year. Yes, that was the year that rock and roll got a toehold. I'm here to tell you all about it, baby. You wasn't cool unless you had a 1957 Chevrolet, with pipes and a foxtail hanging from your radio antenna, out of sight mudflaps, have mercy. And most of all, the cats had something written on the side of the door, for all of the girls just to dig. Usually, you would see something on it like "Sweet Daddy," have mercy. What I had on mine was "Daddy Whipped Crеam." Whoa-oh-oh-oh. I've seen 'em all. I've been on thе stage with some of the greatest. Cats like Jimmy Clanton, the magnificent Bobby Darin, Fabian, Chuck Berry, Jimmy Reed, and the incomparable John Lee Hooker. Whoa, whoa-oh-oh, whoa-oh-oh, my, my, my, my, my, whoa-whoa, whoa-whoa, baby, baby, baby. I've seen 'em all. Elvis Presley, Sarah Vaughn, and the great Dinah Washington, Brook Benton, and my man, out of sight cat, Ray Charles. James Brown and the Famous Flames. Whoa-oh. Hank Ballard and the Midnighters, Chubby Checker, yes, yes, yes, yes, yeah. Baby, you know I've seen 'em all. Whoa, now, baby, baby, whoa-oh. I'm here to tell you 'bout it, yeah. If you don't think I know what I'm talking about, go home and ask your big brother or your big sister, have mercy. Better and still, go home and ask mom and dad about it, they might tell you the truth, ha ha ha ha ha ha. Yeah, I've seen 'em all. Woo, woo, woo, ooh-ooh-ooh. Before I step back, I gotta tell you about this: In 1958, going back to the Brooklyn Fox Theater, and the Paramount, have mercy, I remember the time when the kids used to come in to see the show and they'd bring their lunch, because they didn't go to school. The school officials used to send out the truant officer to get 'em — he end up bringing his lunch, too. 'Cause we was in there sockin' it to 'em. Ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh