I said we finally made it to the main stage!
We finally made it to the main stage, but look what it cost, tho
They let us starve and threw a plate in front of our face like, “Which one of you niggas want mo'?”
I don’t know if you understand what I'm sayin', Glu’
But you my brother, and I love ya
But in a minute, you ‘bout to become a lost soul
BAH! Wanna put Eazy in the sky…I'll see you at Tha Crossroads!
They say, “Why battle Glu'? That's your brother!”
I said, “It's business, if he gotta go, then he gotta go!”
And I don't really want no friends: I'm in Tekashi mode!
You thought you was gon' get a cult following tonight?
No, pudgy
You ain’t even peep that this was suicide, son: Tony Dungy
I’ll raise the .50
Gun-butt your baby mother, stop playin' wit’ me
Hold on, lemme break it down in Glueazy terms so y'all say it wit' me
Black nigga, crack her  in the head: Clayton Bigsby!
All the friendship we had before this battle? You can remove that!
Long-range: hit him from 40 acres and get the mule back!
They say, “In order to get respect, you gotta-”
Boy, I ain't givin’ you none
All these guns in your arts and crafts
Ironically, that's the only time I ever seen Glu'  stick wit' a gun
But hold up!
You vers' Danny, Chess, Shotgun Suge, even me
I mean, it was booked last-minute
What, you don't peep, nigga?
Every time somebody get up out they spot, they put you in the slot
You a seat-filler!
I'm strapped in!
Nah, this ain't Twork with amoxicillin, but shots is spittin'
Mind ya business
Even if he take a Lil Peep, white boy'll die from the peelin'! 
It's big business, clips in it
Just gettin' some shit lifted
Blade work, two to ten, ten t-
You ain't even peepin' the shift switchin'!
I predicted the-
Nah, nah, I was lookin' so far into the future, I forgot about the present
I mean, if we bein' real wit' it
But tonight, they sayin' that this could be our moment, Glu'...
But I just can't allow you to live in it!
See, we all about action
Y'all niggas just be sayin' the most
I'll find your big homie and let it off after raising the toast
BOW!
Now you gotta look to the sky to speak to him of what you think of the most
Now the boy out here lookin' like Tariq...tryna learn the fuckin' games from a Ghost!
I pray you provoked, ‘cause that shit will give me wild targets
I'll be the first nigga shootin' outside of SMACK like Kon Artis
And to my fans, I apologize
But I had to make sure my next move was right
So I decided to leave The Gooonies, y'all...for 24 hours: I'm on a T-Top strike!
You fat bitch!
How you gon' go on a strike for 24 hours, and then you cop out!?
I should pull a T.I
You know, pull up, hop out, bad bitches just pop out
One bullet will sit a Bear down: College Dropout!
And Suge, you ain't excluded from none of the nonsense!
It was all “Mr. Pocket-Check”
Until he realized Smack wasn't about to put another check in them pockets!
Y'all niggas pussy! And I mean pussy!
But niggas get on me
‘Cause I got that Shawn Livingston, Nick Cannon, Juelz Santana innocent face
Lookin' like I never bucked a tool
Oh, Glu', you think it's funny?
Oh, well, it only gets worse for you
Because I also look like the type of nigga that'll take yo' bitch, dick her down, and be leaving you hurt
And you look like the type of nigga that'll walk into a restaurant
And lie about your birthday so you could get the dessert
You are two cheeseburgers and a large fry away from a casket
Baconator-eatin' motherfucker…
You can't run, so I'll walk down on you, and that's when shit'll get drastic
‘Cause you know I like to name my guns!
Elmer's
Well, Twork already put the Cal' on you, but this one was 3D-printed, you bastard
Place it under the chin - BOW! - and left Glu' leakin' all over the plastic!
They said, “Smack, you made 2.5 off a pay-per-view”
That's ill…
For 2.5, I'll kill this nigga for real!
I said, gun-butt, gave him the Cardi 
You know, then the rest was gratuity, 'cause I added that to his bills!
I'm startin' to feel like Nino
You know, we was supposed to take over this building together
But tonight - I mean, yesterday at the mu'fuckin' face-off, you decided to switch on fam'
I mean, did I take your bitch? You had to make a side deal?
Or that was all part of your plan?
Well, now I'm on the rooftop, lookin' down at G Money, ready to test those cans
And before he died, he said, "Am I my brother's keeper?"
BOW! Nigga, yes, I am!
Round 1
Ryda, Ryda, Ryda...
Look, I ain't gon' say you pussy-pussy-pussy
But, dawg...you pussy-pussy
They said this Gooonie vers' Gooonie, I gotta kill my brother
But truly, if y'all know Gluey, I've been waitin' to kill this motherfucker!
You babyfaced gangsta!
Well, this shit here gon' be the game-changer
'Cause you got the swagger of Braxton from Jamie Foxx, with the face of an eighth-grader
I straight-razor buck-fifty ya face, playa
Now Driver gotta cut off Ryda
Woo! I'm lane-changin'!
We main-stagin'!
How you just be makin' up bodies like morticians?
I blow Godbody out God body, then four-fif' him
Two straps out, better move back when Glu' spittin'...
And pray that Jesus takes the wheel, or it's Lord willin'
Boy chillin'
You the softest out the squad, dawg!
Roc won't even let you in the Cave: you a guard dog!
Big gun, I could spit at the sun and watch God fall
Plus I'mma win the first and third round: I'm an oddball!
I got y'all, I'm about to smoke Ryda
That .45 will nickel his  cage: I Ghost Ryda!
No lie! Everybody want smoke 'til a gun fire
His bars hot, but my car in the shop: I'mma bust Ryda 
Fuck Ryda! You a male model
And tonight, it's Money Over Loyalty, tell Hollow
We in New York, baby!
This shit feel like I did The Apollo
I was nervous, hittin' the Lucy like Ricky Ricardo
Grippin' an auto, and it's gon' land on a bitch like Spin the Bottle
You gon' see a White show up on Black like vitiligo
Bitch, I followed you
Before URL just ain't acknowledged you
Here we are, two years later, I gave a shot to you
You always mad at when the fans make comments like they don't rock wit'chu
That's why when Twork asked me to join, the shit got to you
It bothered you
'Cause just last year, I was the opp' to you
Been watchin' you
Declined every battle, to keep it hot wit'chu
I'm poppin' you
Get shot in ya ear and see the hospital
Now findin' out if me and Bigg K sound alike ain't even possible!
I'm God to you!
Any problems, you can speak your mind on it
But if that hammer pull, you a cannibal
Feast ya eyes on it!
You was never greater
You just came out first, like a second-grader
The weapon spray ya
'Cause this TEC-9 a regulator
I never waited for y'all to do shit
I did my own thang
Enough that I could leave the Gooonies right now, and start my own gang
'Cause y'all say we brothers
And I be thinkin', "This relationship stinks!"
It ain't what they think
This clique is clickbait: it's always fake when we link
All we do is drink and smoke weed
And that's about as far as it goes
Then, in the middle of the night, Twork leaves us all and go to parties wit' hoes!
Yeah, facts!
Ryda's somewhere doin' the fuckin' "KeKe Challenge"...
And Jakk' at the mall, prob'ly stealin' some clothes!
But still they say bros, and that's got me actin' surprised
'Cause now it's Gooonie vers' Gooonie: it's like you askin' to die!
So I don't care if you the shooter and the driver, I'm splashin' the ride
Head shot: put Ryda on the passenger side!
We in New York, and that's the reason they gon' say you a disgrace
First round...don't let that fat boy scream in ya face!
Carolina, man
I said...those first rounds were so amazing
But what just happened was so blatant
We are not in the Matrix
It's just me and this white guy havin' a conversation like…”I am not a racist”
Oh...so y'all seen the Joyner Lucas video?
See, that was my main concern
So y'all already know, once the black man get a chance to speak...that's when the tables turn
They said that we trippin' ‘cause we battlin' each other
Yeah, that may be true
But shout out to E. Ness, ‘cause this round ‘bout to be crazier than crazy, Glu' 
The gat tucked
Boy, I don't talk much - boy, I just clap stuff
Two shots - Baow! Baow! - he won't get back up
Blade work - aw, shit, I'm finna act up
And I'll be tryna poke Glu'  top in like the cap stuck!
I beg ya pardon
I know his every move when I stalk him
Pride, dignity, soul - everything I'm takin' up off him
It went from skrrt! “I think we lost him”, to a doctor in the waiting room sayin' they lost him
All because he wanted to rep' an army of gorillas
You know, like Planet of the Apes
Well, if it was up to me, Caesar woulda never made it to talkin'!
Yeah, I stood behind you when you battled Suge
You know, ‘cause it was Gooonie-reppin' time
But then I also remembered...I watched Straight Outta Compton that morning…
Then came to Born Legacy to see Suge fuck up Eazy for the second time
Nigga, I battled Twork, Drugz, Quban
I'll take this MAC  and jack  whatever
And after this sick shit, Eazy gon' have to call Dre and try to get the group back together!
Like, “It's Gluey back!”
No, I'll give Gluey this, and Gluey that
Leave him in an all-white body cast, get Gluey wrapped
Then throw a blade in his mouth
Damn, got stuck in his fillings : it was too attached!
I was the only one in the field willing to make that call when it was 4th & inches!
Smack, I was yo' Sixth Man of the year
The only one droppin' 30 comin' off of the benches!
Ryda soft? Where!?
P was there, when me and Jakk' was ‘bout to start handlin' business
He went out the front door, I went out the-
Long story short, Scruff McGruff: it was just me and my dog in the trenches
See, you wanna get a win tonight, but it ain't in God's will, so it don't matter
16, .30 - ehhh, I guess I'm goin' wit' the ladder !
For him? This what it comes down to
Trifecta, I'll hit him wit' the dagger
Or I'll be in the corner, set up, shooter: Bobby Lee Swagger
Oh, you know I went to Cuba, y'all
Wit' the silk shirts, and I did some rare coppin'
Had to gain papi trust
You know...let it ring for service like we was bellhoppin'
But now I'm in NYC, Queens
Yo, Mack Mel! Set me up on the block!
You know I'mma be fresh as hell if the feds watchin'
‘Cause now I'm in the Apple, goin' from cell to cell like I'm AirDroppin'!
Let me hear you owe me money
I'll catch him slippin' on the block like…”Where he goin'?”
Oh...you thought you could just buy bundles from Geechi without me knowin'!
I'll wait ‘til you wit' that triflin' bitch, then let it off as soon as I'm approachin'
BOW! Left Glu'  all on a bitch wig - she couldn't afford the sewin'!
If you feel you can get a win tonight, then go for it, killa
But just because your last name Driver and I'm Ryda , don't think I'mma play the backseat so you could put on a show for  a nigga
‘Matics shown, cracker gone
Leg shot, shatter bones
Then proceed to break down Glu' : acetone!
30-clip, ladder long
Stranger at your door: “Is Tamra home?”
This shit'll show you ‘A Whole New World': Aladdin song
You peep what I'm tellin' ya?
I'm just tryna make sure you get the most bucks, ‘Eazy: I Jerry Heller ya
Or send one of my lil' goons out just to bury ya
I didn't even have to put in no work - that was an Eazy call like Eric Bellinger
See, I'm a young fly nigga, you know, that the bitches fiend fo'
And you? You look like one of them niggas the bitches gotta take one for the team fo'
Gooonies and a bunch of bad bitches...imagine that come
And a bitch like, “Twork, Jakk', Mack, Ry- ooh, girl, I want the fat one!”
Relax, son!
These bitches don't want you, and it ain't because of your race
And I would never ever hear my mother say that I'm a fuckin' disgrace!
So it'd go from, “You don't ever let a white boy scream in your face!”
To “BOW!” and my niggas havin' an O.J. celebration after beatin' the case!
Boy, stay in your place
Round 2, man…
Good round right there…
That shit was great
Look...I predicted the future...and you wasn't in it
Gluey back
Tell Smack this when a doobie rap
Toolie clap
Arm under my shirt like OG Boobie Black
These Gooonie cats snatched me up when I battled Geechi Gotti
They seen that footage, knew I was gon' be somebody
But he too cocky now
I'm brocky, I grip two shottys
I got styles I could loan  him like Isi Miyake
This won't be yo' ordinary Glu'
I ain't stoppin' 'til you in the mortuary
And the coroner put sir up  on the table like boysenberry
All that frontin' for the boss? Shit only work for the secretary
And we weapon-carry
My pops was a shooter: bitch, it's hereditary
Bitch, you scary
Miss me wit' the "white boy" shit
'Cause I'm a son of a gun like White Boy Rick
You cry like a bitch, rappin' 'bout guns
You lyin', Bryan
Straight mark, but he trained wit' heart  like Flyin' Brian
They'll say Ryda died
Never got his respect, he tried and tried
To swing, then boy caught it  on SMACK like Vada Fly
I got a bad bitch, she shoot when I say, my ride-or-die
If I don't win, she'll  cause wreck and see Ryda  fly
Bitch, my steel pop
Ten in the clip, he will drop
We seen Battle Rap Trap - you used to the Killshot
You ain't real
Got skill, but still you a boy, Ryda
It's always smiles and friendly encounters - you a joy, Ryda
All that drive and ain't goin' nowhere...you a joyrider!
The toy fire, but I don't wanna have to use that on him
I'll just pistol-whip his jaw, bruise that on him
We on URL now...well, I'm the reason you back on it
'Cause Smack know when the card's fallin' apart, you gotta put Glu'  back on it
Yeah, second round...don't let me scream in your face
You a faggot, man-
I forgot - go 'head
I said, yo...
All this Gooonie-on-Gooonie violence...it just gotta stop
So after this, the rest of y'all cats on the team, y'all are not a opp'
But for him? It's one eye behind the lens: Oswald Cobblepot
Nah, lemme put the guns down
You know I'm known for the punches
And right now I'm startin' to feel like Hitman in the barbershop
But let's be honest...
I watched you start from the bottom, Glu'
Battling Reepah Rell in the PGs, Geechi Gotti on the West, Shotgun Suge
Even to this moment, I can say I'm proud of my friend
I hope you get on the biggest cards and face the biggest names
And when they talk about your legacy, you speak on how you got it back then
Honestly, you in my top 5, 'cause I feel like you one of the best with the wit and the pen
See, it's kinda like a Marvel movie
You see how I just gave him all that credit? And he still gettin' clipped in the end
They say, “Ryda not believable! Oh, he wouldn't let the pistol fly!”
But yet I'm in demand to get on all these cards
So I guess I am your typical nigga
‘Cause they sayin' I ain't got no credit, but the interest high!
Nigga, I want war!
What the fuck you think I brought the guns for!?
30-clip, unload, reload - nigga, I gotta dump more
You know I ain't bring one gun, it's always two
They like, “What the fuck for?”
G. Dep, Lil Weezy
‘Cause first, he get the ‘Special Delivery', then I leave shit in an ‘Uproar'!
You know I like to name my guns!
But that's why the blade caught him by surprise
I raised it, it was held up for a minute, then I finally dropped it like Tha Carter V!
I thought I was gon' be yo' gunna, Smack
You know I came from the PGs, where all the killas at
You let Loso turn down a PG, but then when he do get a PG, it was on N.O.M.E. 8
I took offense to that
Then B. Dot dissed you for a whole fuckin' round, but now he on this card battlin' JC
Oh...you feel you had to give him that?
I thought it only mattered on URL
So them niggas can battle where it don't matter, and come to where it do-
See, I ain't feelin' that!
I watched Chess choke vers' JC, Chef Trez...even Glu'!
But every big card, I hear whispers, “They gotta get him back”
While I was the one that gave y'all the “Scorpion stance,” and then sat out for a whole fuckin' year
Can you make sense of that!?
Nigga, I remember when you was pushin' Tay Roc!
You know, it was “Bars Over Names”
But now I see it's all about ticket sales! I guess the bars went under fame!
This how I feel! This how I feel, nigga! This how I feel!
The name “Ryda” - you shoulda known I'd be good wit' creatin' my own lane
I put my heart, blood, tears, and sweat in this shit!
These top-tiers just give you a half-assed performance and get a check for the shit
I'm a nigga that give you 110% every fuckin' battle and still gotta fight for my respect in this shit
I mean, at this point, nigga, square up, Smack! I'm ready to WRECK for my shit!
Where the fuck is MY N.O.M.E.!? Summer Madness!? Or a top-tier that matter, like Nitty, or John John bitch ass!?
You know, ‘cause they say Ryda ain't battle-tested
Well, they'll never know unless they give me a chance to
And everybody wanna know if Ryda still Cave Gang or not…
Nigga, fuck Ave! You ask Roc to give you yo' answer, nigga!
 Matter fact, yo' silence in that situation was enough, so now I'm cockin' the hammer
And now it's a Goonie over top of the Cave like Wayne Manor!
I said, Twork! Jakk'! Drugz!
What, y'all don't peep? Nigga, I'm wagin' war
And don't y'all ever act like y'all ain't never seen The Goonies run through the Cave before!
I said, let's keep it real
In that situation wit' Drugz, niggas was safe ‘cause of ME in that bitch!
Had I not been Cave, niggas would've been shot, cut, stabbed, and put to sleep in that bitch!
You woulda needed the Avengers, Justice-
Nigga, everybody from Marvel to DC in that bitch!
‘Cause I had everybody from Virginia, Maryland, to DC in that bitch!
I give a fuck if they say I stole this cadence from Big T, ‘cause Big T is a bitch!
It's Goonie Gang over everything, Smack - I'm all you need in this bitch!
I tried to tell ‘em, “Man, I don't get along wit' these niggas”
You put a vet vers' a bitch - I don't belong wit' these niggas
The churches gon' have to sing a slow song for these niggas
Got me askin' at my partners like, “The fuck wrong wit' these niggas?”
They say it's Goonies vs. Goonies
Now I gotta tie up my brother...
And I know a lot of y'all might've saw that feature
And peeped how I could catch a body on the rocky road and put a Chunk in the freezer
Dumpin' the heater
The pump put him front of a T-shirt that say "Ryda  Forever" like a paraplegic
Big chopper, that impact'll knock Ryda unconscious