Yeah uh uh Yeah
Cuzz that ain't right
Uh, what chu waitin' for?
You punk motherfucker you wanne be Gee
Make 'em get on the floor
Walking round like Deebo, cuz you slight built
But look you choose to be that fool
When I'm sellin', with the crew
Would be mellow, light, and, cool
Justice imperial heavenly Asiatic decent
Jazz, well you can call it that
Do the math, cause the loudest they're coming after
Flamboyant rap cats, now bring it back, cat
I been doin this rap shit for years
Me and you one on one with the music
We been preparing our techs in the van
Either tape won't eject, it was a Southside classic
Remember Moe, from a 3rd Ward house
Smokin' big with my nephew
Antoine, Antoine's got something here
Young doin it live with no curfew
So if you comin' with me then let's go
With the ice man, bitch and I'm gone like that
Made the mistake of not makin chops your producer
Up in my home zone radius, maybe I'm biased but
If I ain't gonna do it, he's gonna die anyway
So yo i drop some science every demo i make
As the bad guy, lookin for an alibi
Tryin to break that bread, I'm tryin to get that cake
Ya I kinda like the way this beat is flowin out
In the club with D-Lo might catch a felony
To lead people out of the dark to the God man
Sniping radio rap stars from the balcony
It's amazing grace, the days are great
Paper enhancer, the quiet man with all the answers
She's Freaky! She likes you to talk dirty all night!
Get 'em all back for what they did to the Panthers
I should say not to flatter myself
But nigga you facing me get some help
I drown in the depths of my mermaid's water
Or never let it out and go our separate ways?...
With the guns blazing? You trail, my god, its amazing
Giving Him praise now until the end of our days
Playing with your pussy trying to deal with all the heat
Now you can catch me but can't kill me
We killing cops and all you got tha heart?
On all the strata, it's just got to be
You're gonna flunk ???? smokin blunts, my friend
Put shoes on my feet, my family have to eat
Having nothing to lose but only goals to gain
I refuse to speak, the cracks and concrete
I was built in a factory, but that don't mean ima bot
That just means that I'm smart and ur not
Don't take this for a P90 mac cuz naw it's not
This is an AK47 and ur about to get fooled and unc00l3d
It started when I was young with my Genesis games
Now if you want some you best come with a gun
Don't forget to switch hands, can't knock us the top up
I suggested you and I do some one on one
Searching the truth but I ain't on to her
Yo surround the perimeter like his name was Shaka
If I hear you diss my crew, it's on, forever!!
Left a vino and casino with a villa on an acre
Poor little baby, runnin from ghosts when what he should have been afraid of was
ME!
I don't need a name for my crew cuz they already known
Unlike you who needs attention to be shown
Now it's all over, yo it's a new chapter
We spit a venomous verse your head will just burst
I stun and compress, multiple elements to one
Coachin but you're slouchin, you can't be first
Fadin another 20, took a sip of my 40
It defends us from criticism and hides our insecurities
Brighten the mood up, when I'm spitting this all
He secretly believes in Lucifer and other deities
Don't make me talk 'bout yo fashion
BRO those shoes look like
Converse Chuck Taylors!?!?!??!?!
DUDE THOSE WERE POPPIN' IN LIKE... THE 2000s!
Bruh you no match for me
Ima god and you just a wannabe
Now crossin' the floor
Takin' a sip of my coffe, it got hot sauce all in it
It sound nasty cuz my raps are
It sounds hot cuz my bars are
FLAMIN
And now you wanna close the door
I don't need to be a wrecking ball to crush you
Because these raps be like... Bruh you suck
Who the FUCK do you think you are
Trying to slam down my front door
Well now you gonna pay
It's payday
Waiting for your train to arrive cause
Juss peep da git down
And speak with, hold a convo frequent
G.. Kurt at work surround your town
Uh uh