{Iron Solomon comes out and says he doesn't have an opponent yet for Summer Madness 8 and will battle whoever wins this}
Ain't you supposed to be on strike?
Heard you was mad at URL cause they wasn't payin' you right
But instead you up here rappin', so there's only one thing I gotta say here tonight
NIGGA YOU'S A BITCH
Enough witcha fake ass
This ratchet gettin' dumped over the head like her face trashed
The face mask, and some gloves on, you know I'm not finna play
Put the gun in ya mouth
Now remember, if you choke Smack dockin' ya pay
Yo Top where you stay?
I'll show up to ya spot with the damn work
Y'all will see T get tied up in the front like a fag searched him
The Mag burst
A full clip, no bullshit
Bitch I ain't stutter, a round cover ya top like The Chronic cover
Now y'all cover ya eyes, if you don't wanna see the boy T be clapped
Back shot, his disc skippin' like a CD scratch
Nigga we be strapped, with all kinda different Glocks
Catch you laid up wit' ya bitch, you and her gettin' shot
Soon as the trigger pop, they gon' find her laid back with a head in her lap, look like she gettin' top
Now look, I just got rid of a Shotgun, now a nigga owe me a pump
You sittin' here lookin', cause you just try to show me you tough
Baow, knock ya stomach over there, nigga go witcha gut
What the fuck?
Y'all got me battlin' this nigga, he a shell of himself
Close range, shootin' with the arm over the nose, look like I'm smellin' myself
Nigga self made, ask around
They'll tell you, "Gotti don't care he trippin'."
Head shot will turn Bizzy The Bear into Bizzy barely livin'
I live what I rap
Baow, they know I love them guns sounds, that's how I know that he clapped
The homies like, "Chill, Gotti you makin' way too much noise wit' the strap. Put a silencer on it."
Nigga for what? After he dead he get a whole fuckin' moment for that
Nigga who got ya back?
DNA? K? Tell me what Shine 'bout
He get a leg shot, Smith fuckin' up Cavs  like JR ain't call that timeout
The nine out, I'ma bust mines then
So much blood on cuz, all you gon' see is Rain covering Shine like, "I'ma just tuck mines in."
Nigga, that shit you did to R Streetz was wack, that's when I knew you was weak
Typical sucker, got him a lil' money then he turned his back on the Streetz
But see I fuck with R Streetz, so to me that shit was gay
Cause I remember that shit
You was walkin' around that whole event like, "Buy my mixtape king."
On Nutty
All of a sudden you got on stage and you ain't got shit to say?
Well bitch let's play
I'll put this T in a box like it's Desiigner or some shit
Then show up to your funeral like, "Aye Carolina in this bitch?!"
No! If Top get a round then Top get a round
Head shot, hospital gown
He paralyzed so now wheelchair is the only way Top get around 
On the block I was found, now I'm the hottest in this shit
You can ask the people to vote, I got the hood shit on lock from the street shit I quote
I heard you brought yo' mama to this battle...she must be proud to see you go to war with the Loc
Crackhead bitch only showed up cause she heard your opponent was dope
Bro you a joke
Ever since UFF, you been losin' it Top
You went from Surf all the way to me, that ought to tell you somethin' about you and your stock
Nigga you really flopped
See you supposed to be battlin' niggas like Tay, nigga not me
But you been on that losin' streak
I think he deserve to get that focused Top
Plus you might wanna spar wit' ya mama befo' that one
She can give you plenty tips about smokin' Roc
Yo bro just stop
The fo' fo' black; Barack Obama
I heard you got a baby on the way...that's gonna bring all types of problems
Soon as she poke her head out, I'm airing her head out
She gettin' smacked with a lot of shots
The good news, you ain't gotta buy a casket, you can just stick that bitch back in her mama box
I lot of shots
Soon as we stop Top, he got God
Blaow, it'll be mo' blood on T than Rickey shirt when he got shot
The Glock hot, Top get twisted
Oh he the dread head, the coroner's lookin' at the body like "Ha ha. That nigga DEAD dead."
And all these niggas, rockin' this Yak Man shit, thinkin' that that curse shit a joke
Rockin' a cigarillo brand and wonder why y'all keep gettin' smoke
Now look, Yak, just provide me the figures
It's only right if Al Kapone  fuck wit' a Mafia nigga
And when it's real, y'all can tell, y'all can see it in they eyes
It's yo' turn see if you can make niggas believe them lies
Nigga time
I said yo
You right bro
When I heard Smack made 2.5 bitch, it was one of my worst nights
Brizz said, "Top I got my machete I'm on the first flight."
Now I know why Nu Jerzey Twork had to go and steal a purse twice
Found out what Tay Roc was makin' and not know why he use the word "light"
Beasley said, "Top this is the world's most respected, but this is not the way you earn stripes."
I told him, "Nigga, ante up befo' you find out a purge like."
Y'all see me front page of the paper
Some of my niggas still have to serve life
So I could give a fuck about URL I'm tryin' to avoid my third strike
Nigga, you heard right
Free my niggas in the halfway house
That mean they half way in but they half way out
I remember cribs, we was makin'  blaze out
I wanted an ounce but seein' how a hand plays out
I make you do it or find out what my stab game 'bout
I made him turn himself in like his last day out
Bitch, speakin' of last day out, you said in January you was goin' to prison for a year, we was countin' too
I guess he got a five minute sentence, then got out in two
Y'all Locs really be pullin' strings, huh? Well why y'all gotta keep us out the loop?
It seem like every time a Crip go to jail they come straight home...out the blue
First it was the blogs, like, "Yo, I'm 'bout to battle for my life."
Then his jail sentence went bye, faster than my strike
Ain't that a bitch?
For that reason, we can never sell bricks with each other
If you can't sit and do ya time, nigga we can't even sit with each other
Nigga, it make sense why him and Tsu Surf dissin' each other
Niggas prolly wanna battle so they can snitch on each other
And that ain't the type of bullshit that we let slide
If you ain't snitchin' than let me see ya PSI
And PS, I, ain't met a group of solid Crips since the GS9
So even though he ain't do his time, and as funny as it looks
I was the one who offered to put money on ya books
Don't forget it
I know this a battle so don't admit it
Cause bitch niggas like you worry about ya image
Like when he did his Gangland show, we wanted to see where them pistols at
Nigga scrap that, at least let us know how they pitchin' packs
But Geechi bitch ass was the tour guide, picture that
I nigga from the Mafia turnin' into the biggest rat
Aye, he said, "This alley right here cuz is where we fuck the bitches at
Right here by the  is where we do our Crippin' at
Last week at the dice game we blew a nigga's biscuit back-"
Snitchin' ass, you let 'em mic you up like the shit was SMACK
Then you had them niggas behind you like, "Cuz spittin' facts."
Shit was sad, if we was the Nuttys we would've whipped ya ass and took ya flag
That's how I know he was a decoy walkin'
Cause if he was really puttin' in work
They would've had his face blacked out with the deep voice talkin'
We've seen those often, it would've went like, "Yo this Bae Loc. I was the man in '09
Big trapper, everything from grams to whole pies
My bundles? Came with a stamp on both sides."
But they showed ya face cause you was talkin' 'bout hair the whole time
Bro, you really sell hair weave bro?
Aight, I guess it's all a grind
But tryin' to take yo' talent to prison, boy you done lost yo' mind
He said, "Listen up everybody. I ain't gon' take up all ya time
But you can get the Pusha T's the Iverson's, I do all designs."
A nigga yelled out from his cell, "I like stars in mine."
He said, "Come, fall in line. You know we do those all the time."
And that's the reason Gotti shouldn't be glorified
He a bitch, I seen more man in his daughter eyes
You saw them guys, what he starin' at son?
He was yellin' "Criiiiip" until some damage get done
My man backed out, I said, "Hand me that gun."
Next time he throw a sign up in his whip, it gon' be a handicap one
I will handicap son, this as real as it get
Expose him kissin' a pop like Gilly Da Kid
I hope I get the same thing they gave Bill for the shit
Cause I can do a 3 to 10 just for peelin'  a bitch
I'm really convinced
When we found out Twork was fuckin' Coffee Brown in Vegas you were salty
I mean, you ain't say no hatin' shit, but ya face did all the talkin'
Twork said soon as he fell asleep that bitch ate it on a softy
I said, "Nigga we watched DNA fold ya "
He said, "Yeah, the best part was wakin' up to Coffee."
The best part of waking up is Coffee in yo' cup
Aye, I'm just shakin' up his coffin to make sure he don't sleep right
I break his hand to pieces, the nigga can't even peace right
Chopper on me, Geechi Gotti better learn to weave right
Or his head tapped like he ain't do a bitch weave right
Concrete nigga!
You gonna talk some gang shit to me? Like you really ridin' or somethin'
"Geechi should've blurred his face out" only niggas doin' that must be hidin' from somethin'
He said I need to have home games to win
Stop it clown until Smack throw an event in my hood, all my battles is out of town
I'm from Compton, I don't feel comfortable unless the Glock around
Cause the same niggas that'll lift you up, will turn around an knock you down
Let's get down to the truth
Cause the moment you joined NWX, Brizz joined Cave Gang and you was mad about that
So pretendin' that you not is what we not gon' do
You and cuz came in together, you was like damn Brizz
You was mad, why he could not go witchu
It instantly reminded you of the relationship witcha mother
Cause now another person that you love chose Roc over you
You a fuck boy Top, let the truth be told
Any nigga that'll sell is moms a rock will prolly sell his soul
You not even a drug dealer, you just a nigga that dealt drugs befo'
Had a couple of double ups, prolly graduated to an ounce but nothin' mo'
So all that king pen shit in ya raps, you just stuntin' wit' that
You ain't had no boats, bricks, bundles of crack
Enough wit' the cap, cause you ain't seen no real money til you start fuckin' wit' SMACK
Nigga, Smack made you, but you ungrateful
So they pay me to kill The Bear
Up here talkin' all this shit, that's why I don't feel The Bear
Cause if it wasn't for them niggas, cub wouldn't be shit
Be basically showed us how to Build-A-Bear
They gave you the platform to build ya brand, but you ungrateful
Up here actin' like, "Niggas need me"
Smack, that's exactly why you shouldn't have fed The Bear, them bitches greedy
You was up there on AngryFan, soundin' straight soft
Followin' Hitman, when every time he got booked, it was big plates
That nigga ate off 
Can you not see  y'all in different tax brackets?
That's not the nigga you should talk through
He gassed you up, you ain't even realize all the bread you was gonna let Holla cost  you
I should off you, but I know you niggas, they hoe you niggas
Got you signed to them slave deals
Worried about that 2.5, get that shit out ya mind
Cause unless Smack take ya bitch ass to dinner, you ain't gettin' a paid meal
I stay real, now right about now I feel like spittin' on you
Cause you started to strike for these niggas, now it's time to get ya casket, see which one of them will pick it  for you
Nigga you been disloyal, I could never shit on URL
They done did mo' fo' me than any of these leagues since a nigga been rappin'
Especially you, you low key one of the bummiest battle rappers
So befo' this little bit of money I can only imagine
He literally made you from the dirt like God did Adam
EVEn if you don't believe this yo' daddy, we do
That's some shit we don't gotta go to Maury for
How come you always opening ya mouth sayin' some shit, then you gotta turn around and say "sorry" for?
You know why? Cause he disrespected Kenneka
They made ya bitch ass apologize
Then you disrespected URL, niggas made ya bitch ass apologize
But he want y'all to believe, that nigga was sellin' dope to the fiends
Late night he had to stand on the curb
Nigga please, you can't even stand on ya word!
Word up
Anything I say I can stand on it
I learned from a kid you gotta stay down
I found out every bird don't fly, once I took the work on a Greyhound
You niggas is straight clown, fake beefin'
I should call you niggas actors
Make sure it was sealed tight enough so a dog couldn't smell it
My only issue with a rapper
You not a factor
Ever since 12 years old, I've been gang bangin'
I'm thankin' God I ain't gotta spend my life in prison
You arguin' with Smack and Beasley tryin' to make a deal
Nigga, in court we had to take a deal
Strikes is different
Nigga, our lives is different
I'm good anywhere, just ask any of the street niggas I know
Answer me this, how cuz a Bear but he can't step foot in Chicago?
Drago, I'll put a hit on Melvin, close range wit' the red dot
Baow, got Melvin lickin' the bald head like you got Jodie in a headlock
Nigga the FEDS hot, so I gotta watch how I act T
They said his back against the wall, you might finna black T
Relax T, you came here to lose ya life T
Ya mama put ya face on a shirt, now you a white tee
You light T, you a Diet Brisk, this a hired hit
Matter of fact, I'm comin' straight to ya do', I ain't ask you
Think TLC: code word: No Scrubs
If you see me hangin' out the passenger side of my best friend ride, I ain't tryin' to holla at you
The Llama splash you, when you got that gun in yo' hand you feelin' like you got more than power
Baow, now them shells in you fat boy ain't corn or flower
Them hollow tips, man I'm a real life robber, I done hit about 50 licks
You even tried to spend $100,000 amongst 50 Crips?
The .50 clip, so when I bear arms, the strap's beside his Bear arms
BAOW! BAOW! I ain't never shot it like this, guess I'm in rare form
And when it's real, y'all can tell, y'all can see it in they eyes
Go 'head, it's yo' turn to dance around see if they can believe them lies
Nigga time
Bro, you really gonna bring up Kenneka again king?
Damn, I thought you was a friend
But I said the line in yo' hood bitch, and you ain't do nothin' then
Now I realize why your slogan is 'Yous a bitch"
Cause your whole side hustle is based on how you use a bitch
Yo wifey had dreams of doin' hair nigga, she prolly went to school and shit
Then you took over the Empire like Lucious did
Soon as that pack touched down he said, "Ooh that's it?
These lace fronts can blend in with the roots and shit?
Oh that's too legit. I know some bitches that could use the shit."
A Crab in a bucket huh? That's gotta be one of the truest myths
Cause she always knew somethin' pussy would stop her from makin' it baby, she just ain't realize you the risk
Who is this? I don't care if he Nutty Blocc or Hoover Crip
Grape Street, Rolling or one of these lil' newer Crips
I'll tool his shit, have him tryin' to make it to the dispatch
He know when Top roll up on him, it ain't a Zig Zag, get a half moon or a stick
I don't care which  craft
A revolver, hit him square in the stomach, he get the six pack, quick fast
I spit on yo' Crip rag ya bitch ass
Give him five out the old Eagle, the McNabb
Two options, we can lock a  room like it's gym glass
Or y'all can get ya hero rock like the Jim class
Aye Bay Bay, he never sayin' shit
Beretta hangin' from his head like he Hurricane Chris
Dawg, you really a lil' nigga, I can keep in the shadows
I done went viral more times than you even battled
You here now, but that don't mean we eager to have you
We just know if we wanted to get stoned in the west than we needed a statue
There's mad proof, we seen ya bandannas and tattoos
Thought about the west coast image said, "That's you" so Smack drew
Up a contract, it was that smooth
Ya stats grew, til the day that you get ya ass chewed
Aye cause Chico gon' whisper to Beas', "Ya man trash dude."
Beasley told Chico, "Nigga, this was Smack move."
Well congratulations, this ya graduation, come get ya cap blew
They told me, "Peel Gotti" since I already capped Tsu 
And then you let the Christian nigga beat you, I watched them bring God into the streets
Sammy The Bull, that white boy took Gotti off the streets
Rain vegan now, I told him, "I ain't knockin' what you eat."
Long as it's 'bout chicken you still got me when it's beef
Do you "copy" or "capiche"? You fake Italian, weights will bound him
Take him to the lake and drown him
Record the murder, so we can make tapes and clown him
Show the Six, God so they don't want Drake around him
He got plates around him, but he ain't never turn a half to a fo'
Or trapped on the road, you from Cali you ain't never moved a pack through the snow
I had glass on the stove and bags on the go
Sudafed commercial, come get a blast for ya nose
Nigga! I'm the original trap hustler
Four days straight, now that's hunger
We found a snake in L.A.; the Black Mamba
I came here to catch me a body cause Smack love ya
And I owe it all to Yo Gotti, I'm Blac Youngsta
Aye some facts for ya, before they start callin' for time
Whoever told you, you could beat me all of 'em lied
They got you thinkin' you a star, bitch, it's all in ya mind
Any views you get from this battle, ALL of 'em mine
But listen, I'ma let you have a million
Before this you never had a million
Barely a half a million
You just been here, blendin' in like you half-chameleon
He ain't never put packs in the ceilin'
If you did, then I'm snatchin' ya children
Like, "Aye Bae Loc, I need half of a million. And bring my bitch at least 40 packs of Brazilian."
Concrete
You said I lost to the Christian
{Crowd starts yelling "Facts!"}
I took it light on A. Ward, I could've gave that Christian major pain
I grew up in the ghetto watchin' fiends shoot up like, "Lord!" I guess they was usin' God's name in vain 
You the lamest lame
Talkin' 'bout you be cookin' crack, you ain't even got a car
But you want us to believe you whippin'
We got rocks the size of baseballs
Them crackheads will tell you how we was pitchin'
Hard white? Nigga, the best dope came back yellow like The Simpsons
This nigga trippin'
What block you get doe on?
I did my research
That same block you can't go on
I know ya type in the hood, you Big Mike in The Wood
You ain't nowhere near a rider
Got him backin' up from the ratchet
"Oh, this is how we do it in North Carolina."
I'm the street supplier
I get the work off Pedro and them, the crack Spanish
Got fiends passin' out from the dope, my trap savage
I done literally seen somethin' drop every other day: this SMACK Madness!
The strap plastic
Face shot, leave a nigga mouth wide
I remember bein' outside shootin'
Goin' in the house, my mama be like, "Son, be careful. Somebody was just shootin' outside."
On the outside lookin' in, you can't fall in love with this shit
Homie it's temporary
Niggas don't know each other on a first name basis, we know each other by our hood names
Half the time we don't find out ya government until it's on the obituary
This shit is scary, cause soon as ya bag up, that's when the hate rise, I done took lives
So I know there's a nigga out there tryin' to take mine
That's why I keep one eye focused and the other lookin' over my shoulders: bitch, I'm Snake Eyez!
You ain't never live like this, you don't know what I had to witness growin' up
Only thing scarier than bein' chased by that shooter, bein' on trial and the witness showin' up
Nigga I'm from the Gangland, you better watch what type of shit you throwin' up
Cause this right here? Can have the wrong words bein' said
Our sign language can show you the difference from bein' deaf and bein' bad
They say I don't got enough bars from movie quotes and shit from reality TV
That's why the fans be mad at me
I say, "I don't give a fuck. These niggas makin' movies and TV shows on my reality."
Don't be a casualty, to the war on the streets
Cause bein' fresh to death, got a whole new meanin' when they bury you with what you wore on the streets
Boy I'm a beast and you must be crazy
Cause if ya fat ass too lazy to run when I shoot, you gon' end up a lost soul
You better wish I miss you like Uncle Charles or they gon' have to meet you at the Crossroad
I'm in boss mode, side shot feel like a kidney stone
They can't even see the Flesh, only thing left was Bizzy Bone
What is we sayin'? No harmin' me 
I'm forever strapped, it's no harmin' me, ain't no harmin' me
Ask around, I done put in that good work
You make the wrong move tonight and y'all will see T bein' stretched like one of Suge shirts
Nigga, my hood cursed, I rap what I know
This ain't no made-up shit that I imagined
I literally seen him put 15 holes in a nigga that was 15, so many holes they couldn't patch it
Lil' nigga didn't even have no pussy befo', he died a virgin
First time gettin' in some box it was a casket
This shit tragic
You prolly ain't never seen what I seen
I'm close-range, seen him get hit in the head
His family was low on money
Had to do a GoFundMe to come up with the bread
So they had that funeral 'til like a month and a half later
Shit, most of us had forgot he was dead!
Nigga, you heard what I said?
It's crazy how niggas celebrate death
Them funerals look like a festival
T-Top get a head shot, 'til he brain dead
But I'ma keep shootin' cause mama always told me to finish my vegetables
Nigga I'm 
Nigga when I went to jail I stayed silent, I never ratted on a soul
Nigga ask my bitch, even after she wash, I don't never fold
Straight up, I really live this Crippin'
My niggas put the gang over everythang
They fuck around and put the shelf under the hood like the engine trippin'
Yeah, I wasn't always rappin', bitch, I was Loccin'
I did time at 16 for the beef, I ain't jokin'
My mama came up like, "Son, why was you shootin'?"
Shit, I was open
And you was hopin', I don't tell these niggas how you was callin' my phone when you was in my city cause you was really scared
Don't worry cuz I don't do personals I'd rather use a gun shot to kill him instead
They say, "Look, you can't find no dirt on T
Aw, Gotti, this finna be a classic!"
Nah, y'all just ain't found no dirt on Top cause I ain't lowered his casket
And when it's real, y'all can tell, y'all can see it in they eyes
Go 'head, it's yo' turn, see if they can believe them lies
Nigga time
Said URL this my closing verse
Like fuck a casket throw this bastard in the back and just close the hearse
I ain't come here to make the crowd go berserk
I came here just to show y'all work
Now let me put it in
Dawg, we tired of hearin' 'bout ya gun crimes
I mean if Nitty the king, you gotta be the Gun Line Prince
The reason I don't do that back to back punchline shit
Is cause ya whole round seem wack soon as one line miss
I dump my bricks, I done moved weight in the buildin'
You walk in, smell like you paintin' the buildin'
But I don't move weight in the buildin'
Next month, it's like we repaintin' the building
I ain't never heard of Geechi movin', shakin' the buildin'
That's why when it come to believing in you, it's just hard to do it
I mean we done watched Crips go from cookin' crack to cookin' up with Martha Stewart
And Harvard students, we still got to move with the cartridge shootin'
You trip, get everything I got, it's all inclusive
Don't ask about T-Top or if he's sparkin' Rugers
Cause he'll  go right at ya head like Cardi do it
But let me guess, it's Crip Nation, we are the movement
Ain't nobody gangbang 'til we had the heart to do it
Well what about them New York Black Spades that was down wit' the Hunger Gang?
Them old school Vice Lords who we know wasn't fuckin' playin'
Y'all sayin' gang bangin' started in the west, well that's just excludin' all the other gangs
Y'all bitch-ass niggas was just the first ones to color-bang!
Another thang!
Y'all supposed to build wit' each other, even the kids
Y'all supposed to give 'em skills to recover
But y'all the first black gang to start killin' each other
Pop ya homie, hit the funeral and chill wit' his mother
Y'all niggas suckas
The shit that he won't even admit
Like if Crips wasn't so fuckin' disloyal, nigga Bloods wouldn't even exist
Let's keep it Crip
I'm tellin' y'all it's not what it seems
Sorry west coast but cuz sold Compton a dream
I just call 'em Crips, they don't know what Mafia mean
That's east coast shit, plus the real Gotti from Queens
See, that's the shit that be havin' me so lost
A west coast Mafia Crip who go and take the name of an east coast boss
He's so soft
But I can tell you why they lettin' Geechi rock out
Cause Nutty Blocc ain't had a poppin' rapper on the set since BG Knoccout
Bitch! And you let 'em call you "Baybay Loc"?
Aight, I see you took this all the way
I bet you wish you could change yo' name and wash it all away
I be confused wit'cha niggas, ain't tryin' to call ya gay
But it's a man on the phone every time that nigga's callin' "Bay"
That's all I'm sayin', I ain't playin'
I came to hurt guys
Jakkboys and Rydas, my Goonies ain't none of Twork guys
I don't just hit 'em wit' the car, I reverse mine
And shoot Bae down wit' the tips, I'm the worst kind
The next thing you know your family up in the church line
Mama cryin' callin' ya homie like, "What's ya shirt size?"
That's what gon' happen you try to run up wit' my work slime
Caught a hurt Shine
We gon' make it rain in southern California for the first time!
Why? Cause I keep the ratchet 'cross the hall like Shenaynay crib
I keep twistin' his cap on some Ray J shit
Kick in the door, baow, put one in Baybay wig
And then I'll make a movie out of Baybay kids !
I caught him right in his hood, while he was warring for his stripes
You know regular Cali shit, I caught him at the light
Pow! Pow! Left a nigga pourin' out a pint
If he survive, his doctor get performance of the night
I went to L.A. wit' a shotti, I mean a shotti shotti
With one reason, just to catch me a body
I mean a body body
They said, "Top how close you is to his crib?" I'm in the lobby lobby
With six .9's to produce me a hit, I came for Gotti Gotti
Nigga! You copy, copy? I roll wit' a pumper
A hole in his Chuckers will leave him with a swollen concussion
Twist his cap, peel his lid like I'm openin' mustard
Then blow his brains through his mouth, that's an open discussion
The doctor pick up the cover like, "Oh it's disgustin'."
She ain't seen a Cali nigga's brains get blown out since Poetic Justice
 There's no way in hell you can fuck wit' me
I'm like takin' a kid to the bank, I'm sucka free
Bitch, and I buck it  under ya roof, I sprung a leak
I'll spray then cover the smell, who cut the cheese
I'll fuckin' squeeze, then start dumpin' at his men
He'll Crip on stage, but he a Blood at the event
Tsu Surf said, "Fuck you", you gets nothin' after this
Just tell him the Bear killed him
Concrete nigga