Ayo
Now, I know I was meant to be here last year
And everyone was expecting Shotty to show
And I'm not here to give excuses about problems at home
Or passports taking long in the post
I'm here to say sorry to folk
And take the shit that I'm probably owed
And I guess Organik runs this like the Yakuza
And I've got to get rid of Fingaz 'cos I dishonoured the code
Soon as Organik told me the name I decided to check
And jumped online in a second and started typing the letters
I was expecting to see a rhymer with venom times the style
And the method of every idol and legend I've ever prized as the best
By the way you was described in the message
I watched him. I saw he lacks the desire and effort
Plus he has no fire and presence
I'm getting pissed off 'cos I even know the rhymes he's forgetting
And I've never met him. I mean, I'm pissed off
'Cos you tried to act like the guy was a legend, and I didn't get it
'Cos, when I watched, all I saw was Fingaz falling off
Like I was some type of a medic on an island for lepers
I don't believe the story about how your fam' will come in with their ammo bustin'
Fuck you and the shank you're clutchin' you ain't stabbing nothin'
You can make these people believe you're a beast when you're acting thuggish
But all I see is Fingaz projectin' the image of an animal like shadow puppets
I'm a British rock 'n' roller. Crowd surf, stage dive
You have a 9 to 5 when writing rhymes is how I make mine
But don't get mad when you finish work early in the day time
To find your girly arse naked with a Shotty like Daylyt
Aight
So, you rep the Mosh Team? My team reps the Machine
Your Mom dukes a rock fiend who pop locks and Oxy
Shotty cannot stop me or moods that I'm in
Your bitch pussy look like Drew Gooden's chin
You're the UK's Organik? Like, really though? You dumb?
You clearly haven't grasped onto the things this man has done
For one, he built a league that's out your league and it is run
On a standard that your standard's cannot stand or dare become
Secondly, Organik? That's who you wanna be like?
Never fucking happen - how we s'posed to get your teeth white?
Listen, seems like your life goals really don't seem right
I'm shooting for the stars, Shotty's shooting for a street light
Honestly, you're weak like boring and it's bland
I feel sorry for your fans but more sorry for your Dad
Your Mom dukes a bucket down in Horticulture Ave
Who'll be screaming "I love Canada, it's 40 bucks a gram"
I do not understand why Shotty thinks that he's a God
He made a couple styles up and forces out his songs
I'll body bag this Shotty fag-oh
I'll body bag this Shotty fag, you must have got my order wrong
Your Mom conceived you on the couch that Hollow shot his porno on
Listen, you're right, you're right, fuck it, you're too ugly
I'ma end this first round a little short. 2Comfy
Yo, you can call me an alien 'cos I'm foreign
And I didn't bring no guys in the club
So when I body him one of his tribe on the side
Will try and fight, kick and punch
But I'm English and I'm on some 007 shit and my snipers are fucked
So you'll feel alienated when E.T's and we light Fingaz up
The last Canadian to rap and skateboard was Tom Green
I never would've thought
Which, in a way, shows you and the cops speak and you're a regular in court
You're like, 'Wait, what does Shots mean? That's not relevant at all.'
I mean that one scene in Freddie Got Fingered
Tom had sausages tied to his hands to show
Your fingers is connected to the pork
Speaking of Freddie, I'm representing Cruger, Rowan
- all them UK top spitters
Speaking of Freddie, you keep sleeping on me
I'll be on your street putting a blade on Fingaz
Yeah, me taking a loss today could end up in a lot of sliced throats
Don't believe me? You won't believe me
'Till a knife shows and Fingaz gets swiped on screen like an iPhone
But let's go back to your snitch potential
'Cos I smell a proper rat stench
And we all know fingers provide the police with vital information
Like finger prints and polygraph tests
What I'm saying is, if you're hot in the dock
You wanna watch bringing these boys around
'Cos the cops could have you locked
But they need Fingaz to point you out
Yo, it's like Jesse James doesn't know he's history
He needs to up his knowledge more
The last Jesse James through the Wild Western days
Tried to take shots, and died on Robert Ford with a shotty drawn
Your hairstyle proves you're a faggot and your girlfriend is your closet door
I mean, I'm English, I eat more poutine and I even watch hockey more
2Comfy, yeah, that's the motto
But you don't look comfy when you're holding on a bottle
Yo, and I know everyone keeps talking about your bitch
Cos she's fucking fine. I guess we're just impressed that you found her
I mean you know you're a bitch when you show up with your bitch
And your bitch is the best thing about you
Aight. I heard you rep team Bait. You know what Bait means out here?
It means the cops will be around us any minute that you're near
So let me make this clear-oh
The cops will be around us any minute that you're near
So let me make this clear and say this shit with urgency
I didn't come to battle you, I'm putting you in surgery
Seems like the new currency for rapping reputation
Is the followers and views a man has what truly makes him
But if a man can buy his views and followers are hatin'
How can you just follow suit and view that as a way to rate him?
I understand you battled Diz, took it in consideration
But he free styled, and you wrote, on top of that you fucking paid him
So here's the ultimatum to stop talking where you shit from:
Paying dudes and paying dues, shouts to Math for this one
You paid a dude to say you had paid your dues and then some
Hate to say it dude - you made that move, that move made you a victim
I respect the working man, that man respects his income
And shout out to the hustlers, they find ways where there is none
But which do you embody, Shotty? Better yet I'll list some
Little moves you did and we'll just let the crowd reaction pick one
Like, you started Lab Battles, right? Cos you didn't want to work
And earn your fucking placement that you felt that you deserved
As far as I'm concerned that's a hustle move for sure
But you ain't do it on good terms, you did it just to get at Eurgh
Now, I know plenty people who done blew up off the curb
They never let emotions make their choices, that's my word
Now, Eurgh's a working man and man, I'll know that he'll concur
The hustle move just hustled you and left you with your bridges burnt
Now the table's fucking turned, 'cos you working for the working man
That's what you get for trying to feed that greedy little urge you had
So you a not a working man, a hustler or both
Just some bitch who screams out 'Uncle!' when I put him in a choke
Yo. Really though? Fuck the bullshit. I'm a fan, blood
I'd like the see you versus Ahab in Amsterdam - that'd be amped up
Amped up? No?
You are the only self-confident outspoken person
Who is afraid to put his hands up
Something's fishy, and I've clocked
You're just an octopus 'cos your hands suck
You can laugh at that fam', 'cos I'm a little clever fuck
We can go hand to hand like Van Damme and the Sandman
But damn, fam', Fingaz wouldn't measure up
Stop thinking negative are you some fingers down?
Or are them shit some extra thumbs?
I mean, fuck it, everything's got it's pluses
I bet you're fucking Tekken up
I'm sick of being underestimated and named the underdog
This has taken me ages
I'm not one of these fake skating Wayne kids that came in when Drake did
Soon as Organik made the arrangements I've been patiently waiting
To get in the face of these haters and change what they're saying
So tonight when I rap, it's sign language
And I'm just using Fingaz for making statement
Yo, and since you keep choking, I'ma do a you and throw my rounds away
I'm in Canada, like I'm in Iraq on some civil war shit
I don't care if you've got no fingers, bitch
I'll freestyle and I don't even need to talk shit
How dare you drop a Daly bar ever again
When he walked in because at least he had the battles to step
Face to face and walk out of the battle before anyone called it
What I'm saying is you've shown up, and fucked off
I'm just saying fuck off
Listen, and I don't give a fuck about your girl Britney
I'll freestyle 'cos I've forgotten my bars
But just for that chick I would quit stalking Nicki Minaj
And live in the dark outside a crib in a park
Fucking, hold on, fucking, got me thinking that
Ain't fingers the most intimate part?
I mean, what does she really think when you try and tickle her arse?
Or give a massage?
I mean, I mean, its got me thinking, can you pick a guitar?
I mean, where are your fingers, Fingaz? Are they pickled in jars?
I mean, can you ever really order more than one drink in a bar?
Feels good to be home though. For real, I'm feeling blessed
Got my fam' all in the building, I'ma kill it nonetheless
There's a little issue with you I've been dying to address
How you come to battle rap and try to make requests
Organik sent the text and this is not a fucking lie
It said 'He doesn't want you mentioning your uncle just died'
Fine, I lied, I decided I ain't hiding it
'Cos you were buried in this ring before you stepped inside of it
Battle rap is not for you so why the fuck you trying it?
I'll put a bigger hole in you than what your uncle's lying in
So, suck it up, quit crying, he ain't crying about a damn
I can't believe you actually would try to make demands
I'll dig your uncle up and cut the fingers off his hands
Stitch 'em to my own and slap out every Shotty Horroh fan
Listen, now, I'ma keep on going and this is freestyle too
Not the freestyle that you made up and then you say it is, cool
I say this right now, right off my fucking head
A minute ago, just before this went down, Shotty turned dead
He was super pissed off, we were over at the bar
He overheard that uncle bar and fucking lost it
Comes up to me like 'Yo, let's scrap, Fingaz? I wanna fight you now
Talk about my uncle 'cos he's in the ground'
You come in here, diss my hand, really? Are you proud?
What the fuck? My hand's half dead so now we're equal, wow
And that was freestyle, so that's what's kind of cool about it
Fuck it, you know what? End it. I'm cool about it