                                      IntroductionMarketing is essentially the art of tapping into human motivation; what is that that makes us buy one product instead of another? Motivation is an extremely important aspect of human nature, and something sociologists and psychologists have concerned themselves with for over a century. For Colarelli & Dettmann , marketing programs cannot be effective unless marketing managers have a working understanding of human nature, especially from an evolutionary perspective. However, after an examination of the explanatory paradigms in marketing, Saad & Gill  found no explicit grounding of marketing theory in evolutionary psychology, despite the subject’s massive growth over the past few decades.
In the context of sport marketing, the state of affairs is even worse. In fact, numerous researchers have pointed out the fact that the sports marketing industry – practitioners as well as academics - has yet to agree upon a useful definition . Buhler & Nufer  believe that the most useful definition so far was offered by van Heerden :
Sport marketing is the specific application of theoretical marketing principles and processes to sport products and services; the marketing of non-sport and sport-related products and services through an association - such as a sponsorship - with sport; and the marketing of sport bodies and codes, their personalities, their events, their activities, their actions, their strategies and their image.Based on this working definition, the following review will focus strictly on the marketing of “sport bodies and codes, their personalities, their events, their activities, their actions, their strategies and their image.” This will be referred to as the “sport product” being marketed in this context. Futhermore, attempts will be made to understand the evolutionary implications of sport from a sociological perspective. A short review of the sports marketing literature will then be presented. Finally, conclusions will be made based on these findings, with the purpose of developing actionable strategies that are grounded in an evolutionary perspective.
                       Sociological perspectives on sportSocial Function of Sports.
In the modern era, sport is often thought of simply as a form of entertainment  and, on some level, this is a fair assessment. However, the fact that sport has remained such an integral aspect to societies all around the world, while other socially-accepted forms of entertainment come and go, seems to suggest this is not the whole picture. Anthropologists Roberts, Arth & Bush  pointed out long ago that “Games occur so widely that it is an easy inference that they meet general human  needs” , along with the fact that many tribal games are directly linked to various cultural activities, such as hunting or combat. Crowther  offered the anecdote of the Greeks tearing down a portion of their city wall upon the return of Olympic victors. This served to symbolize that their “protectors” had returned, and they no longer needed a city wall to protect them. There was also the Olympic tradition of ekecheiria, or “holding hands”, which was symbolized by an armistice during the games . As Aristophanes related in Lysistrata “Don't you share a cup at common altars, for common gods, like brothers, at the Olympic games..?” Indeed, Elias  also wrote extensively on the contributions of sport in the socialization process.
Thus, the power of sport in shaping social interactions extends beyond participants to include spectators as well. Sports offer a perfect example of what Whiting & Edwards  referred to as the “cultural learning environment.” This concept of social theater remains as pervasive as ever in the contemporary social sciences . As Schouten & McAlexander  point out, the modes of socialization that individuals partake in contribute a great deal of meaning to their lives and are the most powerful organizing forces in modern times. It provides the “means for maintaining a positive image or enhancing it,” according to Schwarzwald et al. .
Subcultures and identity expression.
In simplest terms, subcultures are loosely organized groups of people who distinguish themselves in some manner from the culture at-large.  Working off the idea that “society cannot share a common communication system so long as it is split into warring classes,” Hedbige  described subcultures as an expression of subversive values and identity , outside the modern lanes of communication . Rather, subcultures express themselves through style, behavior, and consumption practices. In recent years, sports marketers have begun to acknowledge that, on many levels, sports consumption can be understood as an expression of values associated with a particular sports subculture .
Baldwin & Norris  showed that participation in a subculture is a significant demonstration of personal identity. Green  points out that a large body of work has demonstrated that identity plays a pivotal role in consumption. In the context of sports consumption, modern institutions have also started to acknowledge the important role that sport can play in shaping the civic landscape. For example, the European Union has faced alarming economic and demographic shifts over the last decade, and some have started to look towards sport as a viable method to increase community cohesion and stabilize social norms . To understand this connection, it’s necessary to have a working definition of identity.
Self-identity and social identity.
Currently, there are two major theories of identity, which some researchers have attempted to integrate into a unifying theory . Nigerian author and storyteller Chris Abani  summarized the concepts of self-identity and social identity nicely:
In South Africa, they have a phrase called Ubuntu. Ubuntu comes out of a philosophy that says, the only way for me to be human is for you to reflect my humanity back at me.One of the first influential theories of identity came from the Symbolic Interactionist perspective. Herbert Blumer  defined Symbolic Interactionism in a simple enough manner, saying “people act toward things based on the meaning those things have for them; and these meanings are derived from social interaction and modified through  interpretation.” Sheldon Stryker would eventually use this perspective to develop his Self-Identity Theory .
In essence, Stryker believed that individuals attempt to reconcile the social designations they attach to self  with their behavior in social situations  corresponding to those designations . In other words, individuals think of themselves as having certain identities, or roles, and they seek out social interaction as a way to act out these roles and receive positive or negative feedback from their peers. The reasons for which an individual chooses which roles to act out are based upon their personal values, or affective attachments to trans-situational beliefs that an individual has deemed desirable, such as justice or honesty . A full explanation of his theory is outside the scope of this review, but some of his key propositions were summarized by Turner , which has been slightly reworded below:
1. The more an individual is committed to one identity out of many, the higher that identity will be in their “salience hierarchy.”
2. The degree of commitment is positively correlated with:
        a. The extent to which that identity is positively valued within local and         cultural norms.
        b. The congruency of the expectations of those who one depends on to         form an identity.
        c. The size of the network of individuals on which one depends.
        d. The number of individuals within that network whom one depends on to         form an identity.
3. The higher up in one’s salience hierarchy that an identity sits, the more likely that individual will:
        a. Act out roles that are consistent with the role expectations associated         with that identity.
        b. Perceive a situation as an opportunity to act out that identity.
        c. Seek out situations that provide an opportunity to act out that identity.
4. The greater the commitment to an identity, the greater:
        a. The effect of role performances on self-esteem.
        b. The likelihood that role performances reflect institutionalized values and         norms.
5. The more external events alter the structure of a situation, the more likely individuals are to adopt a different identity.
6. The more that changes in identity reinforce values of the individual, the less resistance that individual will have in adopting that identity.
The second theory of identity is known as Social-Identity Theory. A social identity is simply a person’s knowledge that they belong to a social group . It was first developed by Tajfel and Turner  to understand the mechanisms for intergroup conflict or exclusivity resulting in ingroup favoritism. While Burke  has shown fundamental similarities between Self-Identity Theory and Social Identity Theory, which led him to believe that integration of the theories would be useful, he has also pointed out that the two theories attempt to explain different human interactions.
Essentially, Self-Identity Theory is concerned more with the cognitive processes which lead us to choose, act out, and integrate certain roles into a cohesive identity, while Social-Identity Theory is more concerned with the social structures and group processes that contribute to the formation of certain group identities and the degree to which those processes might affect one’s conception of self .
Summary.
Our findings suggest that sport goes well beyond entertainment for spectators, and is actually a very diverse method of socialization. It encompasses a “cultural learning environment” in which values are transmitted, roles are communicated, and community members act out these roles in a process which helps to form one’s social identity, while also contributing to the formation of their self-identity to varying extents.
                        Understanding fan behaviorCommunication of values through sport.
Mullin  rightly described the consumption of sports as both “experiential and emotional.” Going even further, Novak  contributes the following:
Sport is somehow a religion…sports flow outward into action from a deep natural impulse that is radically religious: an impulse of freedom, respect for ritual limits, a zest for symbolic meaning, and a longing for perfection. The athlete may of course be pagan, but sports are, as it were, natural religions. .Research from Percy and Taylor  seems to support this view, as they presented their study of trends using football as a metaphor for religion. Meir & Scott  cite O’Brien’s  example of the “glamour fans” who supported the Showtime-era Lakers. Contrast these fans with those “hooligans all over America  loved the bad-boy Detroit Pistons because they won ugly: elbowing, pouting, complaining, and conquering by any means necessary.” Dionisio et al.  showed a set of common ideas regarding rituals, symbols, locations , and beliefs among fans who regularly attend Sporting football  matches and the organized Sporting fan club Torcida Verde. Those same researchers reduced these common ideas down to three outcomes involving symbolism, socialization, and social recognition.
Specifically, both fan groups considered themselves to be perceived differently  from the fans of other clubs – though, for different reasons – based on their own intergroup comparisons; both groups use commons symbols such as t-shirts and scarves  to differentiate themselves from outsiders; and both groups take the socialization process very seriously, with many Sporting fans expressing regret of the fact they don’t have easier and more numerous songs to sing as a group and Torcida Verde members taking great pride in their choreography.
Based on this evidence, the claim that spectatorship is a means of communicating values through socialization seems reasonable. However, there are two sides to this coin. Building a passionate and cohesive fan base can have major effects on an organization, including much lower costs in terms of customer retention/acquisition , significant increases in attendance and product consumption , as well as other positive outcomes. Nonetheless, if organizations are not careful of what values they are communicating through their behavior or of the ways in which they guide their fan base, a number of negative outcomes are possible.
The most extreme example of this is football  hooliganism. Dunning, Murphy, & Waddington  found no less than 101 reported incidents of fan-related violence between 1908 and 1983, of which the overwhelming majority  took place from 1970-1983 – 40 incidents were recorded in the first 3 years of the 80’s alone. Furthermore, passionate fans sometimes represent an opposition to institutional power . As Meir & Scott  point out, “sports fans are often in conflict with the institutions controlling their sport.”
Dionisio et al.,  showed at least one contributing factor to this conflict, in that passionate fans often show resistance to club sponsor brands. Smith, Graetz & Westerbeck  found that sponsor integrity – essentially how genuine the spectator perceives the sponsor-team relationship to be – was the single most important factor to purchase intentions and three times larger than the effect of passionate support for the team being sponsored. In other words, no matter how passionate a fan, incongruent sponsorships can be an issue. However, Kim, Crow & Kim  pointed out that there are personal and situational factors which mediate the brand image-purchase behavior correlation; namely, age and sponsor awareness.
Fan Typologies.
When attempting to understand fan behavior, it’s important to note that there are different levels of fandom. Futhermore, Jones  points out that spectators may not necessarily be fans, in that they often observe a sport and then forget about it, the difference being that fans vividly remember these experiences and relate them intensely. Thus, unlike many other industries, the exchange process between sports organizations and consumers is hardly utilitarian  in nature.
Whannel  makes an important point that, “while there are clearly aesthetic pleasures in merely watching sports performance, the real intensity comes from identifying with an individual or team as they strive to win.” Meir and Scott  go so far as to say that fan identification may have a minimizing effect on the negative outcomes of poor team performance. Understanding the extent of fan identification with a team or player can have significant marketing benefits. One way to achieve this understanding is by creating a fan typology.
Hunt et al.  offered the concepts of temporary, local, fanatical, and dysfunctional fans. Furthermore, Tapp and Clowes  present a streamlined typology distinguishing among fanatics, regular and casual supporters. Stewart and Smith  allow for a more nuanced typology with terms like aficionado, theatergoer, passionate partisan, champ follower and reclusive partner, though it’s not clear how useful these labels are from a marketing perspective. Nonetheless, Dionisio et al.  suggested that the common denominator in all the various typologies found in sports marketing literature is the concept of commitment.
Fan Commitment.
While there is a large body of research on the factors of commitment, the leading framework appears to be the Three-Component Model, which includes affective commitment , normative commitment , and continuance commitment . In their review of the literature, Meyers & Maltin  found that affective commitment tends to be the strongest determinant of psychological well-being in relation to the performance of certain tasks .
The importance of affective commitment in the Three-Component Model may be explained by the work of Ryan & Deci  on Self-Determination Theory  . SDT is comprised of three well-founded components to psychological health:  autonomy , competence , and relatedness . According to Myers & Malton  research has shown again and again that when the needs of employees in an organizational context are satisfied, those employees demonstrate greater engagement in their work, perform more effectively, and experience greater psychological adjustment and well-being. While the context may differ slightly, it appears that feelings of autonomy, competence, and relatedness play a major role in cultivating commitment to an organization.
Summary.
Multiple levels of fandom have been identified based on the extent of their commitment to the organization and, while a fan may transition from one to the next depending on certain factors, the distinct levels of fandom all display unique consumption behaviors. Specifically, those beyond the level of “spectator” will seek out various methods to display their association with the team  in order to express their identity as well as feel a sense of “relatedness” with other fans.
                    Marketing sport and spectatorshipThis review has attempted to shed light on the nature of sports spectatorship and the socializing role it plays through communicating values, guiding passions, and mediating the behavior of individuals within a group. From this perspective, athletic organizations offer a valuable product – well beyond entertainment – to individuals as well as to private sponsors seeking a crowded platform on which to display their own values. However, there appears to be very little acknowledgement of this product in the marketing literature.
Traditional marketing approach.
The traditional marketing mix - made up of product, price, promotion, and place – has been the definitive pedagogy among marketers and marketing managers for nearly five decades. In spite of the various P’s and C’s added to the mix over the years , it has faced harsh criticism in the last decade. Questions have been raised about its lack of strategic elements and its validity in a service economy . Mullin  pointed out that “almost every element of marketing requires significantly different approaches when the product being marketed is sport.” While it’s often said that the “customer is always right,” the most influential critique of the traditional school of thought was, ironically, its complete disregard for the customer all together .
The commercialization of sports.
As it relates to the marketing of sports, it’s worth a brief discussion on the commercialization of sports; specifically, the “commercialization of amateur sports” . Slack  asks the following question:
While the virtues of an efficient government are difficult to ignore, the adoption of public policies that promote efficiency and economic growth has meant that there is a real danger that economic criteria will become the sole standard used by local governments for determining service, programme and partnership decisions. Will this ideological shift be able to balance the opposing goals of social policy and economic growth? Will the interests of the public be compromised to advance the interests of the commercial sector? Will public-commercial partnerships change values with regard to the role of local government sport and leisure departments, so that the priorities of local government are determined by commercial rather than public interests?Although Slack was speaking in the broader context of State and Federal governance, the same questions apply on the scale of University governance. Even in the most obvious of public-commercial partnerships, these questions go unasked. Part of the blame falls on marketers, who have promoted the concept of an exchange relationship in which each individual is free to select the option they want in a free and open marketplace . However, this view does not meet the standard of reality, as it ignores the structures of power and authority that have such a profound effect on relationships . In order to create an effective marketing plan, these power structures and the relationships they affect will need to be considered.
Relationship marketing: a new approach.
Sheth & Parvatiyar  describe relationship marketing as an ongoing cooperative behavior between the marketer and the consumer. Prior research on relationship marketing has taken place in a wide variety of business contexts, including sales, supplier-retailer relationships , and service transactions, but has only recently been proposed in the context of sports . Its success thus far may come from the fact, “It facilitates role enactment by providing definitions for types of influence and communication strategies that should characterize two participants in a relationship,” .
In practice, the attraction, development, and retention of customers has been the focus of relationship marketing . However, there are narrow perspectives in the school of relationship marketing, as well. In these cases, the long-term outcome of transactions has not been a major consideration. On the other hand, according to Bee & Kahle , “broader approaches attempt to understand consumers better and go beyond the current transaction and superficial repeat purchasing techniques to develop meaningful and beneficial relationships that are proactive, enduring, and interactive.” Furthermore, “consumers are viewed as lifetime customers,” .
Dwyer, Schurr, and Oh  characterized the business-customer relationship as a continuum from transactional to relational with transactional exchanges depending on rewards, while relational exchanges depend on intrinsic factors such as shared values . Although Anderson and Narus  suggest that organizations focus on both sides of the continuum, research has shown that consumers often stop purchasing products and services when rewards are reduced or eliminated. If this is the case, it would appear that transactional exchanges are only useful insofar as the transaction can evolve into a genuine relationship.
Cultivating relationships through the linking-value of sports.
Dionisio, Leal & Moutinho  stress the importance of the crowd in keeping sports alive, quoting Taylor , “the crowd is the supreme authority without which the golden core of the game has no currency.” While traditional marketing techniques have focused on creating a perception of utilitarian value with respect to transactions, the new paradigm emphasizes the “linking-value” of products and services . Consumption of sports products is a very unique act when compared to other modes of consumption, though. Bee  made the point that this act “reflect the consumer’s commitment to continue patronage regardless of other choices available to them.” It is a demonstration of the consumer’s desire to be involved and maintain a relationship with their chosen organization.
This should be good news for marketing managers, as it suggests that attracting consumers is half the retention battle. Also, considering that athletics play a huge role in the overall identity of colleges and their stakeholders , one would assume that students would be more than willing to help bolster that status if the university decided to equally invest in that task. In terms of building relationships, there is a vast amount of research on the importance of trust in long-term relationships . Furthermore, Morgan & Hunt  make the point that trust is based on shared values and serves as an antecedent to relationship commitment. Values represent enduring consumer beliefs about specific modes of conduct or end states .
As we have already discussed in this review, the communication of shared values is absolutely crucial to forming relationships. One example that Bee & Kahle  aptly pointed out is sports talk radio, which allows fans to develop a sense of shared values and expectations for the team. Another way of thinking about this is that it helps in identifying and forming role expectations, not just for the players but also for the fans. While there are many modern forms of communication, the “cultural learning environment” is crucial to group communication. These environments must provide structured and unstructured interactions.
As far as structured interactions, the literature mentions “rites of passage” , which are acts that may take place as a symbolic acknowledgment of an individual’s acceptance or belonging in the group. Butts  illustrates this point with the example of surf culture, in which there is a very specific manner of dress, as well as slang usage – or, “lingua franca” – that serve to distinguish surfers from non-surfers and hold the sub-culture together. However, it is the act of surfing – a skill which may take years to acquire – which differentiates between those who are truly committed to the lifestyle, and those who aren’t. Unstructured interactions are just as important though, as it gives group members a chance to autonomously act out and experiment with the fan identities they see as being valuable.
Summary.
Relationship marketing is becoming increasingly popular in this day and age. It has major implications for the marketing of sport, since the sport product, as these authors understand it, constitutes a “linking-value” through shared community passions. Relationship marketing also makes for a much better approach in terms of customer retention in the long-term. The basis for building group relationships are essentially the same as that for individual relationships, namely: clear and open communication, expression of values and expected roles, symbolic rituals or objects which serve to represent these roles, and the opportunity to practice these roles within the “cultural learning environment.”