Charron, Charron, Charron
You had it boo
I think you beat Charlie Clips, I proud of you
Now, I promised if you won, I'd battle you
And I am a man of my word
The only thing left you have to do
Bench 350 pounds incline, no spot
Have sex with a girl and take all your clothes off
Diss me in your next battle without giving me a phone call Beforehand and asking permission to like a fuckin' cornball
Aye, who wants to see me battle Charron?!
How that kid winnin'?
Got me confused? My head spinnin'
Yo I was told he'd eat Clips, and he did
I thought it'd be total eclipse, I guess he's next then
Cause I'm 'bout to turn Daylyt  to a total eclipse now let's get busy
I'm gonna make this clear, the chain is fuckin' mine
I'll body you, Clips and Charron at the same fuckin' time
I fuckin' hate how you faggot rap
Spelling out all your fucking rhymes like inter-gal- lookin' like a bunch of fuckin' mimes
Yo, I keep it classic, the same since then
Crafting my style but ain't changed it yet
I stick to my guns like a bayonet
Bust in your crib, smack your son
Knock over his...
I'll knock over his Lego set
Fucking Super Bowl kick his stupid gold fish and put his favorite pet in the razor's edge
Charron's corny, Clips is borin' and all he has is antics
And schemes where you pronounce a word a thousand different ways that suck...ant dicks...ant-ics
He be like, "Yo, how you think I got up here? I got a pair
Brought one of my homies with me, I got a pair
Came on my private boat, I got a pier
Even got a French butler too, I got a Pierre."
My my man was like, "Whoa, look at that girl."
Excited like a dog, I got up ear
Which made my listening senses stronger, I got up...here 
Shut up
Guess what room Charlie's in
Clearly the fuckin' kitchen
Know what rhymes with "Charlie Clips"?
Party bitch, Smarties and crunchy chicken
"Yo, yo it's Charron. All of a sudden now I'm gangster and street
Don't make me pull my Glock .9 out of these Wrangler jeans."
Bitch shut the fuck up
You scrawny little faggot, I'll fuck the shit out you
Wring your bony little rooster neck like, "Look at me while I'm drillin' you!"
Aye, fuck everyone!
Suckers got me aggravated
You think I graduated when I toss my cap like Raiden and decapitate 'em
Like your costume versus Real Deal, but let's not replay that scene
Cause I'll knock your head off for real you try that shit on stage with me
I got a hundred fuckin' pounds on you
All power, boom
Make your head spin around like an owl, whooo you talking to?
I'll light up Day'
Beat the day light outta Daylyt
Daylyt won't see the light of day
Light will take flight, whoop Daylyt on a light day
Don't ever think just cause of Daylyt you can walk a day in my life Day-
Lyte  will say night in broad daylight
Daylyt acts like a broad I'll give him a straight right like Ray Rice
Now that's how you flip a name right
Daylyt just hit a dark cloud
Put a price on your head like a mannequin
Mark down, loose your fuckin' wisdom teeth for giving me that smart mouth
Got a hockey stick, shit could get messy aye 
He Marked out, where art thou bars now?
Yo, see before the Spawn shit, he was nothing special, just a regular guy
It's sad you had to tattoo your entire face just to get recognized
And the irony is it's a mask, a disguise
Which best describes and exemplifies his inner struggle with bein' identified
But it's all strategic
For example, take away his rhymes, he's still got all your attention
He's actually smart, entertainment wise
Then he'll say these lines right fast that are so confusin'
We just assume they're amazin' right?
He's got it clocked an hour ahead but see that's just Daylyt  saving time
And though I am amused by your gimmicks, some of that shit you be doing just ain't right
Swearin' on your son's life you won't do something, then do it that same night
Like your example you setting is not bad enough
He name should never be Daylyt 
Cause the sun rises on the east and your son's  not bein' raised right
Like we forgotten to cotton pick
And the avi they display to our planet is the obstacle
Just another one of the man's plantation for a plant they planted
They made it organic  as possible
They holler, "Blacks bring that dollar back."
So we strive for they cheddar cheese  and the work hard
Like it was meant to be but simply they had our kids twisted 
So we all grew up with reverse lies 
We sold our 'cane  to our old kind
Joined gangs, threw up the finger, made our own brothers lay to rest
The race we had it mixed up, we was fighting for peanuts 
But when they weigh in the AM, it was us who created the mega deaths 
But this is where the situation get tricky people 
They tell us, "Go get money." And we realize if we pocket checks we can get out of the low picture
But owe some of us, don't realize there's no way for us to make the po' richer 
So war is the only option
Every Step Easy, but it's toxic
They lift up AK's  with unlimited ammo
And they be the one to pull it
So they attack but only the blacks had to fight back with was 100 bullets 
But our soul constantly  leavin'
Every shotty  they aimed just another brother brainless
Unidentified killings, just another brother nameless 
But it's a difference
When you in Cali end tables  turn
And you realize you in a real hood
Every 24/7 you gotta watch you're own  back
That's the only way for you to Feel Good
Cause a random goon will walk up to you and holla hand  me everything you got
And if you say "No", the Sig will fold ya
He feel handsome 'til they ransom his little daughter
Then bend her  over
But these are facts
And if y'all not listening to me, they straight coats
Just another fake Canadian gangster and I want y'all to take notes 
But I look my peoples in the eyes and tell y'all, "I got a plan."
If ya understand what I'ma saying , I'ma take my people to the promise land
I hate that shit
What? Dress up like this cause me being white, him being black?
You know slaves were saved in Canada, Nova Scotia to be exact?
Always blamin' me cu- aye- being racist
Got me buggin' y'all
Stair lift chair, that shit drives me up the fuckin' wall
Aye, real shit though
I spent the last two months in and out of the ER, spaced
Yeah, spell it out bitch, in outer space
It started with poundin' migraines, blurry vision
Now I'm in an even worse condition
It's like a pinched some nerves and thinks to hurt, er, hurts to think
Stabbin' pains in my brain looks like I got a nervous wink
Don't know how I'm still functionin'
It's scary when the thought of blowin' your own fucking head off feels comfortin'
The doctor's prescribe me opiates now I'm worse from what the pills done to me
Everything just feels numb to me
I'm ready to kill somebody
Fuck with me
I'm the wrong one
You think you Spawn huh?
I'll smack that tat off your face and smack it right back on ya
Yo, eh, smack it on and smack it off like a game of fuckin' racquetball
Til my palm leaves your face lookin' like the basketball that Shaq was on
Animistic characteristics, frame can't even fit in panoramic camera lenses
The man handler, Van Damme kicking grand slams hitting, flip a Trans Am whippin', dismantlin' the damn engine
Found the Grand Canyon by a man fishin' transmission land in San Quinton
 head missin' fuck around and get found in the sand like I'm clam diggin'
Leave you dead in the middle of Little Italy a Philly with Will and Hillary
Feeling Aunt Vivian slithery amphibian who's slippy hands who literally can't get a grip on me
Too advanced lyrically
Aaaaaah!
Leave you dead in the middle of Little Italy a Philly with Will and Hillary
Feeling Aunt Vivian slithery amphibian
The slippy hands who literally can't get a grip on me
Too advanced lyrically
Man, you're damn gimmicky antics can't win with me
We could've made history
But I get it, you wanna make this look like somethin' you didn't take seriously
Cause deep down you knew bar for bar you ain't shit to me!
Straight up
Eh! And I don't need home field advantage, I don't need no one
I could've beat you at Battle Of L.A. on Molly
Ebola, I'll fucking...
I'll flip this whole fucking club upside down, you only tough with the camera's on ya
But once he gets put under pressure, this man will fold up just like in Arizona
These dudes were all scared
I watched these motherfuckers fold like lawn chairs
Ask Organik
Over one little dude, aye bro
Them suckers ran off quick
And it was you saying "Bolt"  but I expect that shit
These dudes were sweatin' bricks
Tuckin' in their phony, fuckin' macaroni necklaces
Fuckin' faggots
No one wants your fake chains and rubber anklets
A coward and a fraud
You might as well be like, "Here, I'm just frontin'. Take 'em."
But there was somethin' that happened that weekend that really proved you're a pussy
It's the moment I lost all respect for you, fuckin' rookie
You tried to shit on stage, squirmin' around, pushing like a bitch
All that fast food that we ate that day and you couldn't even shit?!
What kind of a man are you?
You should be ashamed of yourself
You had like six different positions, you up there strainin' yourself
If I want I'll sit down and drop a log of shit now
Fuckin' relax a bit, take a laxative, calm that shit down
Pathetic, your tight little balloon knot asshole can't touch this
Poop Loggy Log bitch, bathroom thugging
Stank up handicap stalls and don't even flush it
I ain't with the fake shit homie I get to dumpin'
All shit aside, yo that shit was a failure
And you can tell he knows it
It's how his accents change like Iggy Azalea
I thought Arsonal was a gentleman, whoa!
The manners Davone's been havin'
He held the door for me today, I was 40 feet away and it was automatic
I'm done I guess, he cut me off
I start this round off sayin' for everybody who drunk, you like the blues
'Lyt is gonna defeat  a Canadian, just like your shoes
I said the crowd still feelin' me
Due to my ability to rap
Most of the time I don't show it
So my opponents get the preppin' wrong but see what they steppin' on
Until I remind them where the flow  at
I go kill with average, even when they got home field advantage
Yo Pat the fight is right in your hands, just don't throw it
This is your big chance for you to win off the mouthpiece, but just don't blow it
That one should've got two horns off top viking
I'm who they liking , it don't matter where I hang
I'm in wolf mode
That mean I will forever come in first dog
That's exactly why you should fear my name
I tell you this
I'm not asking for help when the flare gun bang
I crack heads when I lift cans, can you spare some change?
Pat you was dissing, now you gotta see these , I hope you will listen
The tool I'm liftin'
Your whole group will get flat tops; New Edition
I'm in your grass with all type of arm, I'm like a bug
Get up and put arms around you, I like to hug
You will take a shell to the back, you like a slug
Your face, I gotta sock it , you like the plug
But I said I'm back to break 'em, spleen choppin'
You seen 'Pac when this Thug Life was on a dirty flo'; we clean mop it
Team drop it, we lift up 40 .9's, box, you seen Hopkins
No Batman but you seen robbing 
Mean stocking, mean stalking blast weapons
Think I don't like ass catchin' , I'm trying to give his team rockets
What rhymes with Patrick? Anybody knows?
Charron's balls
I said, you look like Tommy , who bought me some tacos
Two packs of nachos, on side of a Tahoe
What y'all didn't catch that? No?
If you buy me I ta-tac those
You get two packs that's not yo's
On side of a Tahoe
Shells like a taco
You feel like you the man Randy, you Macho
Until I come in march up
I go at 'em  and it's not Marshall
Y'all don't catch that? No?
I hope none of you actually like those bars
And if you hate him, you're gonna hate him twice as hard when you realize those were recycled bars
Bro, you said you'd fuck P. Diddy?
Who wouldn't?
He's a fuckin' bombshell
What are you gay?
No honestly, you are actually gay right?
When he fights he throws gay rights
Hey, son  finally came out, now we're starting to see Daylyt 
Check this out though
Eh, very important
My greatest gift in life is profiling people through character observations
I watch their faces in conversation and study their body language
Calm and patient I slowly pick up things most people wouldn't normally notice
And leave the most comfortable guys you'd think had nothing to hide with their insecurities open
Now Math was easy, but Daylyt? What could you really say, right?
This guy gets naked in battles, but I watched him and somethin' just ain't right
Think of every picture and piece of footage of him you've ever seen
What's the only thing that no one has ever saw before?
His teeth
He's been hidin' behind his smile his whole life
Huh, show your teeth
Davone Campbell
Teeth like an old fuckin' camel
Know what rhymes with that? "No more enamel"
Eh, this motherfucker could eat an apple through a chain link fence
That's why they call him the G.O.A.T., now it all makes sense
Fucking skeleton, but you never thought I'd mention it
Aww, don't talk about his teeth they're sensitive
Eh, eh, they got feelings  too
Oil and chocolate, you little Sugar Daddy you, you fuckin' spoil them rotten
I know you hate that shit
Your smile is beautiful Daylyt
No, brace that shit
Yo, I'm tryin' to talk to you here
From what it cost you for all the props you bought through the years
The Spawn suit, all the other costumes you wear
I mean what the fuck bro? You could've got you veneers
It's okay to be insecure, rappers are insecure dudes
In fact, my teeth used to make me insecure too
They're kinda crooked, I use to hide my shit before too
I had the same smile as you, that's how I knew
But you'd never admit that, too god damn self absorbed to
You do everythang, little desperate attention whores do
You look for message board news, whoever's getting more views
And do anything to gravitate that attention towards you
Like the fight with Math and Dizaster
He staged a scrap with them after cause he was jealous of the attention
Plus to save his own ass like a coward
And we can keep saying, "Eh, it's just Daylyt, we have to accept it as entertainment."
But when it's coming to actual beef now, how far do we let him take this?
But it's pointless to try to expose him for all the lies that he's told
Cause he's made it so there's a fine line between being a liar and a troll
I can't stand it, but you're transparent
I can see there's no thug inside of you though
If you're moving grams it's into a retirement home cause she's 90 years old
I see you wavin' the steel in the video
I don't care if it's real or not
Being broke and dehydrated is the only time you steal a pop
You from Watts right?
Well let me kick it up a little notch
And kill a Watts  killer with a milli and kill the watts
Leave this G shocked
Watch it or you getting clocked
Cut him, make him look like Seal then peel his tops as he used to box
I don't care if he did or not
Like common Christmas stocking against this boxer gettin' socked
Dawg, my flows too clean you gettin' mopped
The motherfucking King Of The Dot, bitch you lost kick rocks
Charron can finally get his shot
Heliotherapy I put Daylyt  in a box
{Daylyt takes off his straw hat and puts on his ski mask}
Y'all want me to rap?
Let's get it
I said, who rap better, you cats better relax teller
True black era you rats never see traps get 'em
Who that yellin', New Jack felon who act Helen Keller you wack fellas move back, better tell her
Who work better, you heard better, two word letter: kill
Two word feather the word said is Quill
Swerve never the word editor, Verb set of skill, verb predator
Word predator, the third set is skill
But on that third letter do you invent? You be the shit, doo doo dog
I'm in my bag like I'm truly a rich poodle
Newbie they say you new tho but it's truly you spit noodle
Google  like Peruvian mist voodoo
And the clue that you gon' little me, little tryin' to belittle me, little they know the riddle will sit him inside of Italy
Takin' over the web, the  side of me witty B
Point ahead, widow's peak, top shot I'm Kennedy
But who contest?
I shoot context that knock half off
The clip like a coupon your coupon stretch
That's too Contra for ya?
Well throw ya dukes up, we do contact
True contacts say if I do come dressed you'll get a world full of bright lines, I'm too Tron, yes?
We roll out sleep him, peep him we futon rest
They demand for the demon cat  too Spawn yet
Knight dockin' they Bishops I choose y'all chest
But they put a king in front of two pawns?
Well think two pond just
Hand me my extra water
The kids smarter I'm Jimmy Newtron, yes
{Daylyt asks his "master" if he can be done rapping. He says no. Daylyt takes the whip from him and starts whipping him off stage.}
Classics, I'm ready to produce
My stats is fertile
These bodies outta shape so I rap  tight on these pussies, that's a girdle
You wanna race? Then you get jumped in mid stride, that's a hurdle
Bro fell from a slow shell, that's a turtle
Then his ass swell from a fast shell that's a Turbo
Even the babies blast toys, that's a Squirtle
Even the nerds double strapped, that's an Urkel
Nigga you will get a normal round, that's a circle
I send my boy Stacy at him , that's a church shoe
We in ya house before the sun  go down, that's a curfew