I won’t fall for the jook
This one is all for the books
You shoulda popped years ago...Smack start wit’ the looks
But today? The revenge
Trust dawg finna cook
A Utah Jazz nigga used to not gettin’ calls for the push
Bitch, I’m darin’ him
Arrogance
Today, stop my comparisons
You tired of these battles, Glu’? True, I share the narratives
‘Cause I’m fatigued, too- nigga, the difference is I’m wearin’ ‘em!
It’s soldier shit
Fold ya shit, left to leak him crazy
White’ll drip on my wrists like before you feed the baby!
Tell Smack he need to pay me
You never been crackin’
 Cut before he go: that’s a severance package
Is Glu’ still shell-dumpin’?
Career is stale from it
Like how do you say your grace knowin’ how far you fell from it?
It’s Hell from it, I bell-rung him
Glu’, what you cook is not as dope
Email on my phone: see...I just push the envelope
I risk it all - bitch, get off
Lose and I get right back
These rounds worth triple his: I’m shootin’ from the Sprite rack
Assumin' he don't like that, but facts, his fall comin'
Don't ask to stall nothin'
The big axe is Paul Bunyan
Blood splatter from his bladder, docs was all buggin'
Like, "We knew he was bold, but can't believe the gall of him"
Bitch, I’m bodyin’ all of ‘em!
Been wit’ the shit whenever
You switched ya clique to better, your stock, then switched your feathers
Ain’t that prove you was defective when the Goonies split forever?
‘Cause them niggas added Glu, then they couldn’t stick together!
Now you jokin’ in your rounds, is how the fans bought him
Glu’, I don’t dance for ‘em
You laugh, I stand taller
True clown vs. profound - Smack, this a bad offer
Put your mans in front of laughter and it led to manslaughter!
Bitch, fuck if your cans brought up!
Yo’ gun, shit never mentioned
To kill Em’ Kennedy, that would be un-President-ed 
Me? Steel never sing
But he? Skill never bring
There’s thousands on the line...so E feel menacing
It’s crazy one comma cause E  to kill everything!
And ooh, I’m dumbin’ out!
The fools’ll run they mouth
You run amok, get tummy-tucked, remove your gut and pouch
You know you gotta turn to staples when the Glu is runnin’ out!
I am sure that you spark lead!
War!? I’m a jarhead!
It’s Peter Parker turnin’ to Venom...catch this body on the dark Web
You down 1, nigga
I swear to God, if I get robbed, shit’ll never be the same
Y’all act like Emerson applyin’ somethin’ special to this game
Bitch, my last name Driver - I’m forever in my lane
For years, you been on the bench like Luol Deng
One day, I’mma have to shoot a rapper just to prove I bang
When you become a battle boss, it’s like newfound fame
I’m taking care of him
Like Maryland, I gotta tear a pin 
Big blade, they gon’ pull that baby out his gut like a Caesarean
I’m scared for him
16 in the clip, we lettin’ eight go
You get half, then your bitch take half: Jeff Bezos
Do the Math
Fuck all that Kee-Kee and I’ll shoot ya ass
Try to ride on us, and get five bucks like Uber Cash
Leg shot! Now there’s blood on his pants like Superbad
I’mma body you, then go home and be Superdad!
How could Glu’ be mad? This is my tourney
Y’all witnessin’ my journey, to kill a rookie
I’ll steal this pussy like Ron Jeremy
I been straight
I’m nice, you can’t pretend I ain’t
But I been here - Smack done gave me 15 plates
My pen too straight
I spit dope and went through cake
I’m everything you tryin’ to be, but Em’, you late 
I’m real special, too!
You’ll get killed when steel next to you
One can’ll make son dance  like a film festival
We bomb vets, get his mom stretched like The Incredibles
‘Cause any beef, I turn Vegan Verbs to real vegetables!
I’m Glueaz’!
The new breed wit’ two heaters
In the East, I’m a all-around beast like a zookeeper
I ain’t have an option
32 passin’ the rock like Magic Johnson
I- mmmm…
Time, man
I never rap to find the gas
I know the fans is kinda mad
No “Bow! Bow!” or loud sounds - I guess my conscious timing bad
But they even criticize the Jesus
Won’t let that define my path
Y’all even called Kobe “ball hog”...until he finally passed
So I’m stickin’ to my roots
Let’s find out what’s inside ya
I don’t think they trust the riders when they gave me Justin Driver
So I’m settin’ up my tee
They planted me wit’ fire
I think Smack was bein’ catty  when he handed me the Driver
Let’s do it the fair way 
My town is fuckin’ broke
Cousin’s face was saggin’ down ‘til he found some other hope
My aunt’s face did the same
Feel like I’m drownin’ in the boat
The reason I was golf-schemin’? ‘Cause I’m down a couple strokes!
Boy, you raise a Black son...and think you kinda pure
Actually, it’s kind of scorched, especially when this time is war
I’ll have your body rehabbing, give your son a science tour
Like, “Kid, in order for Glu to work, it always needs time to cure”
I’m a felon on the run
Check the melanin I’m from
Never let a white boy scream in my face?
Bitch, I wanna tell that to yo’ son!
And I ain’t done! It’s too enticin’!
This scale he’s been invitin’
How you raisin’ a Black life to have one just lower your white one!?
That yin and yang is beautiful! I’m findin’ what is true!
House get a cold round when they put I in front of Glu’! 
I am not the one to play!
You’ll get followed to your place
Now I’m mimicking the Glu...that’s a copy and a paste!
You ain’t the father for the race
His skin just lacks traction
A good white father is still worse than a bad Black one!
That same skin is needed, your presence barely changin’ him
You teachin’ him to trust same skin that I’m stranglin’!
Did I just hit the vein of him!?
Well, stay where you from
‘Cause this face you’ve become ain’t the race he has won
I know y’all truly not related, but mistakes you have done
Get you shot, hands-do-
Now you can relate to yo’ son!
Bitch, I’m talkin’ in that tone
Today is the Facts Zone
How yo’ son gon’ support his people when his home ain’t Black-owned!?
And stop sayin’ you a cracker!
You playin’ it for laughter
But the guidance you applyin’ is for your children comin’ after
So when you demean yourself for approval in front of rappers
It’s only teachin’ your son that he a nigga in front of crackers
You don’t see how that’s movin’ backwards?
The plight is through and through
To your son, you’ll just become another white that skews the truth
And my daddy was a junkie, son
So I’m fightin’ dude for you
Because that crack’d  be the reason that my life was ruined, too
Bitch, I hope this fate change you
By prey this fate claim you
How is Justin a real Driver...and you ain’t see this race angle!?
To you slaves, I’m state Django
This nigga down 20
I just saw Smack leave - that nigga countin’ my money!
RAP, nigga! Rap!
RAP!
Look, I hate to ruin yo’ plans…
But until that 25 grand is in my hand, we ain’t friends
And I don’t care if you ever talk to me again
‘Cause you not better
This little way that you writin’ is not clever
Go to fight and get a knife to your chest like Brock Lesnar
I’m top-level
Barbecue dinner: the chop’ special
You a nobody, and I don’t play wit’ nobody like Tom Sheppard!
Where’s Reepah!?
Fuck y’all give me this geek for?
No matter who I battle tonight, I’m cookin’ either
‘Cause they the ones who thought I wasn’t bustin’ my heater
Well, I fuckin’ Will, bitch: August Alsina!
I’m the best in this
Shouts to my city, you know I’m reppin’ it
Rappers gettin’ bagged and tagged like cop evidence
Big weapon, heavy metal: Led Zeppelin
Nice watch! I’ll take what you got: that’s Em’ Bezel-ment !
Let’s rap! ‘Cause I know what I’m best at
I know when it’s just beefs, and I know when it’s just rap
You went to RBE and AHAT before SMACK
Bitch, you ain’t been holdin’ down the West - you been holdin’ the West back
And that’s facts
Plus, I already killed the West
I battled Geechi back when Smack ain’t even stood in the middle yet!
I’m really blessed
In this art form, I’m part-God like Gilgamesh
Ho, I’m built for this
I’ll get you all torched
You ‘bout to get this work like Job Corps
I pull it, bullets bouncin’ off shit like parkour!
...I’m all for it
Send him straight through the wall like Hogwarts
I heard your verses - man, he  Fresh: Scott Storch
I pop four!
I love gun bars, and I got more
So this one? Go city to city: we on tour
A lot of bloodshed, I don’t know when to chill
I watched my brother get buried - I know when shit’s real
Steel tucked in my shirt like I’m tryin’ to steal
For 25K, I’ll kill this mothafucka for real!
I be tryin’ to build, focus on me and do the right thing
Got tired of watchin’ actors throw punches: this ain’t a fight scene
I should flip out, shoot the class up: do the white thing
‘Cause I always wanted to buy me a strap: I had a pipe dream!
And that explains why they gon’ say you a disgrace!
Second round - don’t let that white boy scream in your face
Aye, T-Top!
We gotta make a clause on where
‘Cause it’s truly far from fair that nickname he hardly wears
Like, how does T...turn to Grizzly...and not pay me a cost to share
When bein’ the only nigga from my city is the real...cross to Bear?
Larkin flare! Darken hair!
Big opps, I can’t stand you
I learned how to grip pots...so I ain’t have to panhandle!
Good grief! Goddamn you!
Put him back, in alignment
It was crack, he was hidin’ when his racks, was declinin’
Ever stepped on the snow when yo’ trap wasn’t climbin’
And then re-stepped on it like you trapped in The Shining!?
Big facts! You been lying!
That’s the stark symmetry
You called me a clown, made me bark differently
This Hamburglar lookalike turned into my Arch-enemy!
Now his head leak
Fam’ get bled weak
And they’ll reunite in Heaven, but for now, ya dead meat !
Bitch, ain’t nothin’ you said street!
And I’m riskin’ my health
They askin’ who the tourney favorite - I’m liftin’ my belt
The best tactic? Meth addict: I am pickin’ myself!
The  - find help
You bringin’ in defenses
Trump-supportin’ nigga, only singin’ for the mentions
Glu’, you fightin’ for a wall
Bitch, I’m swingin’ for the fences!
Big difference!
Sig liftin’
Bitch trip, I bring fif’ in
All cap: it’s Meg Griffin
Ella Mai: I’m trip-trippin’
I’m winnin’, this instant
And you a small soldier, that run as a boss over
Shit went left like crossover
Laminate his death certificate...need me to talk slower?
I threatened wit’ you that before...but it was somethin’ you glossed over
Got colder, tres to witness, E’s outrageous writtens
I don’t really gun-bar, but for racks, I’m raisin’ Biscuits
Catch the apple of your eye, be forced to blaze your missus
Is that boring you, Glu? Well, I’m tryna gauge your interests
Aftermath was Shady business!
Broad finna bleed!
What I’m airin’ left her barren 
Is that hard to conceive!?
The best bars in the league!
I should slide him if he talk!
But clauses in that contract signin’ if we fought…
So presidential race: I’m abidin’  by default
I blacks in the zone
Tell Smack this the throne
These grown fools, I’m homeschooled: been in a class of my own
And these are gems I am givin’ you
Know what you listenin’ to
Today is the last time you had witnessed a mir-
That’s a 30 clip
Look, how you pro-Black, but dye your hair blonde like you a girl?
Your daddy Black, your mama white
He got the best of both worlds
But you up here rappin’ for shock value
What, you askin’ for some drama?
So if there really was a race war, I hope your daddy kill ya mama!
What’s the problem?
I can’t fire back at these racists?
I gotta bite my tongue and watch my statements?
Go home to my black son and try to explain it
Like the shit that’s he’s sayin’ is just entertainment!?
Fuck that!
I’ll ruin every picture you paintin’
You put Glue in ya raps I put clip in a stainless
White boy from the hood
The way I live is dangerous
So if the culture cancels me, you gon' have to cancel your prior engagements
It's crazy, how you rap streets
That shit got us all in disbelief
Just rap
We don't wanna hear that bullshit Shareef
This SMACK, you diss me, after this can fight about it
Let's see what happens when we don't have time to write about it
I'm hype about it
I'm packin' burst steel
If I'm goin' out, you comin' too, you're the third wheel
{Chokes}