Text comes on screen reading “A Netflix Original Series.”
CUT TO: INT. MAXINE’S HOUSE
The screen cuts from black to a close up shot of Nadia’s face. She’s standing in a bathroom, looking into a mirror, with the sink running. Someone knocks on the bathroom door. The title, “Russian Doll,” comes on screen. There’s another knock on the door. Nadia turns the sink off. More knocks on the door. Nadia looks over. A large glowing piece of art is hanging on the door. She walks over and pulls the door handle, which is a repurposed gun. “Gotta Get Up” by Harry Nilsson begins playing. As Nadia exits the bathroom and into the hallway, a woman enters past her. Nadia approaches two women talking and helps light one’s cigarette.
WOMAN 1: Hey, happy birthday.
Nadia leaves and passes another woman.
NADIA: Oh, hey.
WOMAN 2: Hey, baby.
Nadia walks into a room, passing a man.
MAN 1: Hey, happy birthday.
Nadia walks into another room, patting a woman on the shoulder.
NADIA: Cool jacket.
They wave at each other. Nadia walks over to a man.
NADIA: Hi.
MAN 2: Hey.
They hug. Nadia walks into the main room. She passes a man.
NADIA: Hi. How are you?
She walks past two women, shaking one’s hand.
WOMAN 3: Hey.
NADIA: Thank you so much for coming.
Nadia walks away and approaches the kitchen. Maxine is smoking and preparing some food.
MAXINE: Hey, birthday baby!
She passes Nadia a joint.
MAXINE: It's laced with cocaine like the Israelis do it.
NADIA: Oh.
Nadia takes a puff.
MAXINE: Are you having fun?
NADIA: Fun is for suckers, Max. Two minutes ago, I turned 36. Staring down the barrel of my own mortality always beats fun.
MAXINE: Don't be morbid. This is your party, and I'm making you a fucking birthday chicken.
NADIA: Thank you.
MAXINE: You're welcome.
Lizzy enters the kitchen.
LIZZY: Oh, my God, that bathroom, so killer. That door.
MAXINE: Oh, yeah.
LIZZY: Straight fire.
Maxine and Lizzy hug.
MAXINE: I'm the artist and you're the factory.
NADIA: Lizzy, you made that door?
LIZZY:  No, she made it.
MAXINE:  She built it.
NADIA: Congrats. It's terrifying.
LIZZY: Thank you. You having fun, birthday buddy?
Lizzy opens a bottle of wine.
NADIA: Eh, fun straddling. Hey, you're a good person to ask this. Do, uh, do ladies have midlife crises?
Maxine walks over to the other side of the table.
LIZZY: Why? 'Cause I'm dating a younger woman?
NADIA: Younger?
MAXINE: Dating?
LIZZY: Fine, fucking a 22 year old.
NADIA: Does she know what 9/11 is?
LIZZY: Does anyone? Aren't you a little young for a mid-life crisis?
NADIA: I mean, I smoke what? Two packs a day. I have the internal organs of a man twice my age. If I make it to my low 70s, I'll be shocked.  My cat's gone.
MAXINE: Oatmeal, no.
LIZZY: What do you mean, gone?
NADIA: Well, you know, not gone gone, but he hasn't been back in three days. Usually if he wanders off, he's back at my place or the deli within 48 hours max.
MAXINE: Oh, he's dead.
NADIA: No. No, he's not dead.
LIZZY: It's New York City. You can't let a cat outside. You can't.
NADIA: Okay, fundamentally, he's a deli cat. He has survived more than the three of us can imagine.
Maxine gets up and walks away.
LIZZY: Okay, maybe you should consider making Oatmeal a strictly indoor cat to be safe.
Lizzy walks around the table to Nadia and rubs her shoulders.
NADIA: Man, okay. You know what?  I don't believe in dictating the boundaries of a sentient being's existence. For you, it's safety. For me and Oatmeal, it's a prison.
LIZZY: However old you feel, Nad, you definitely sound 22.
They stop walking.
NADIA: Thank you. It's my bad attitude that keeps me young. All right. Let's make some choices.
They look around the room.
CUT TO: INT. BEDROOM
Cut to a shot of Maxine’s fish tank. Nadia and Mike are alone in Maxine’s bedroom. Nadia examines the fish. Mike stands against a wall, talking.
MIKE: So when people say working class, what they really mean is people who can't afford to go to college. So these people, they feel sidelined by the American dream, right? So they resort to xenophobia and the bigotry, which the right stokes with pundit bullying, which is why we're in the situation we're in now. It's people voting against their own interests. They don't know-
NADIA:  You got kids?
MIKE: What is that? Your pick-up line?
NADIA: Well, hasn't failed me yet.
Nadia gets up and walks near to Mike.
MIKE: Yeah, I've got a son.
Mike’s phone dings, and he picks it up.
NADIA: I don't want to see a picture.
MIKE: It's not a picture, it's a text.
NADIA: Oh, from your wife?
MIKE: His mother and I split up last year.
NADIA: Huh. I have a cat.
MIKE: Your place is great.
NADIA: Oh, it's not my place. It's just my party. You know, this whole building used to be a school for Jews.
MIKE: Right.
NADIA: Seriously. Yeshiva students used to study the Talmud right where you're standing.
Nadia gets close to Mike.
MIKE: What do you do?
Nadia walks towards the dresser.
NADIA: I'm a software engineer. You know, I freelance. Uh, I used to work for Rock n' Roll games.
MIKE: No shit. I play Dark Justice all the time. Battleground Blackout too. What's your handle?
Mike walks over to Nadia.
NADIA: I don't play.
MIKE: You don't play. Uh-uh.
They embrace.
MIKE: Jesus, you're wet.
NADIA: I know, right? It's like, don't go chasing waterfalls.
MIKE: Lisa Left Eye Lopes was always my favorite because she burned down
TOGETHER: That guy's house.
They begin to make out passionately.
CUT TO: EXT. SIDEWALK
Cut to a wide shot of the sidewalk outside of Maxine’s apartment. Mike and Nadia exit the building. Cut to a medium shot. Nadia begins smoking and looks across the street at a homeless man. He asks for money from a woman passing by, and then a man.
HORSE: Hi, do you have a quarter? Hi, do you have a quarter?
MAN: No.
Cut back to Mike and Nadia.
MIKE: You all right?
NADIA: I think I know that guy.
Cut back to the homeless man. Another man is giving him some money.
MAN: Okay, here you go. Take it easy.
MIKE: Worries me a bit.
Cut back to Mike and Nadia.
NADIA: Let's get some provisions.
Nadia walks out of shot. Mike laughs, then follows her.
CUT TO: INT. DELI
Nadia picks something off of a shelf in the deli. Some men are talking behind her.
MAN 1: I'm telling you, my sister, you should go for her. She's fucking hot. She's fucking hot.
MAN 2: I text her a lot. She doesn't -
MAN 3: This is great. I feel like I'm choking you, but I'm not.
Cut to the front of the store. Mike is buying cigarettes. Nadia approaches.
NADIA: Okay, big boy. All right. All right. Yes. Yes. See.
Mike gestures to the pack of condoms in his hand.
MIKE: That's lambskin.
NADIA: Now, that's a good call, 'cause my little pussy lips are allergic to latex.
MIKE: Well, good, then. Where's the guy?
Farran and Alan enter through the front door.
FARRAN: Wait for me in the back. It's okay.
Alan has trouble standing. Farran gets behind the counter.
NADIA: Hey, Farran, how's it going?
FARRAN: Hey. Ah, it's been better. Came to get smokes?
NADIA: You seen Oatmeal?
FARRAN: Uh, not for a while. Um, I leave the Meow Mix back there, but, uh, nothing.
Alan knocks a number of items off of a shelf.
NADIA: What's up with your friend?
FARRAN: He's having a rough night.
Nadia approaches Alan to get a better look.
MAN 1: Dude, I'm telling you. She's into you.
MAN 2: Okay, 'cause I just texted her.
MAN 1: I talk to my sister all the fucking time, and she thinks you're fucking hot.
MAN 3: Just text her.
Alan disappears from view. The other men shopping begin walking up front with their items and talk to Nadia.
MAN 2: Hey. Hey, legs. Where's Clockwork Bar?
NADIA: You want to take a left at Disneyland, dipshit.
MAN 3: Oh, come on. We're new to the neighborhood. Where can we party?
NADIA: Avenue D and 8th Street.
MAN 3: All right. Thank you.
NADIA: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
MAN 1: Was that so hard?
Man 1 winks at Nadia.
NADIA: Fucking seriously, bro?
MAN 1: Okay.
NADIA: Jesus.
MAN 1: Nice.
Nadia looks away from the men and back to where Alan was, but turns away and walks back to the counter.
MAN 1: Hey, muchos, bro.
Man 1 approaches the counter. He fakes out Mike, laughs, and leaves with the other two men.
MAN 1: I think that guy's fucking her.
MAN 3: Alright, alright, alright.
MIKE: Where did you send them?
NADIA: A hardware store that closed in 1996.
CUT TO: EXT. SIDEWALK
Cut to a shot of Nadia’s apartment building. A man walks on the sidewalk.
CUT TO: INT. NADIA’S APARTMENT
Cut to a shot of Nadia smoking in her apartment.
MIKE: I don't know why anal play is still so taboo for straight males. It's almost parodic at this point, but, it's like I tell my students-
NADIA: Hey, I don't want to hear about you fucking your students. I don't like that.
MIKE: This whole thing's for your cat? A tree at the top, cat's at the bottom. He's a climber, I guess.
Mike buttons his pants and puts on his jacket.
NADIA: That's bold, assuming that my cat is male. I mean, I get it, right? I'm single and I choose to foster a pet, so it must be a pathetic attempt to fill the hole in my soul that would otherwise be filled by what? A penis? No, thanks. I'm full up.
MIKE: So what do you want me to do? Call you a sad cat lady so you could say you aren't one?
Mike sits down in a chair opposite Nadia.
NADIA: Oh, come on. I mean, being a feline lover is not and has never been sad. I mean, the one, in practical application, just means the one I'm gonna die with. You know, to take care of me when I'm infirm and shit. So, my move is gonna be to wait till I'm in like my late 60s and then seal the deal. That is, of course, assuming I don't die between then and now.
MIKE: Why didn't you talk like this before we fucked?
NADIA: I didn't know you liked this type of shit. I thought you were a real sick fuck, but I see you're pretty deep, actually.
MIKE: Why don't you come over here and sit on my face right now?
NADIA: I would but I just called you an Uber.
She shows him her phone. Cut to Nadia sitting at her desk. She has dual monitors, with code on one screen and an animation on the other. “...And the Rain” by John Maus plays. Nadia types something. She opens her pack of cigarettes and realizes it’s empty.
CUT TO: EXT. STREET
Nadia walks on the sidewalk. She looks across the street and notices Oatmeal outside the park.
NADIA: Hey, little one. Come here.
Nadia walks out into the street and is hit and killed by a taxi.
DRIVER: Fuck!
WOMAN 1: Oh, my God.
WOMAN 2: Holy shit.
WOMAN 3: Are you okay?
The driver gets out of his car to inspect Nadia. Oatmeal gets up and runs into the park. A number of people approach Nadia’s body. A knock on a door is heard.
CUT TO: INT. MAXINE’S HOUSE
Cut to a shot of the glowing sculpture in Maxine’s bathroom. There’s a knock on the door. The sink is heard running, and then another series of knocks. Cut to a shot of Nadia standing at the sink from behind. More knocking is heard. Nadia turns around. “Gotta Get Up” by Harry Nilsson plays. Nadia continues to look around as the knocking on the door continues. Nadia opens the door. Two women walk past her and into the bathroom. Cut to Nadia entering the kitchen. Maxine is there preparing food.
MAXINE: Sweet birthday baby! Having fun?
Nadia cautiously approaches.
MAXINE: It's laced with cocaine like the Israelis do it.
Maxine hands her the joint from across the table. Nadia takes it from her.
NADIA: Max.
MAXINE: You're not having fun? You hate your party?
NADIA: What was I just doing?
MAXINE: What? What do you mean? You were in the bathroom. You mean before that?
Nadia turns and looks around.
NADIA: Do you ever think it's weird? You know, just, like, partying in an old Yeshiva school?
MAXINE: Why would it be weird?
NADIA: Because this was once, you know, a sacred place.
Nadia turns back around and hands the cigarette back to Maxine.
MAXINE: It's New York. Real estate is sacred. What's up with you?
NADIA: Oatmeal is gone.
MAXINE: Gone? No. He always comes back.
Nadia says nothing and looks closely at Maxine. Maxine returns a strange look. Nadia nods and points back at Maxine. Lizzy approaches. Nadia points at her, then backs into the crowd and walks away..
LIZZY: What's up with the baby?
MAXINE: I don't know. But if nobody eats my chicken, I'm gonna fucking kill myself.
LIZZY: Max, the bathroom looks straight killer.
MAXINE: Oh, thank you. Is it vaginal enough?
LIZZY: Okay, let it go. Let... Let that go. It's a party. Come on. We're dancing.
Cut to a close up shot of the fishtank.
MIKE: It's like John Updike said, "Every marriage tends to consist of an aristocrat and a peasant,  of a teacher and a learner." Since my ex has tenure at Ford-
NADIA: You got kids?
MIKE: What is that, your pick-up line?
NADIA: A son. You have a son.
MIKE: Have we met before?
NADIA: I think I have amnesia.
MIKE: But you just remembered something. Amnesia means you forget stuff.
NADIA: You know, it's a myth that fish have no memory. Some fish they can remember months. And a channel catfish can remember hearing a human announcing food up to five years after last hearing it.
Nadia inspects the fish tank. Cut to her re-entering the main room. She approaches Maxine.
MAXINE: Hey.
NADIA: Didn't you used to have more fish?
Nadia takes the joint from Maxine.
MAXINE: What? No. I have two, Ketchup and Mustard. Are they right-side up?
NADIA: No, they're alive.
Nadia begins smoking the joint.
RUTH: The fucking stairs almost killed me.  Nothing in this world is easy except pissing in a shower.
Ruth approaches Nadia and Maxine.
MAXINE: Hi, Ruth.
RUTH: Happy birthday, muffin.
Maxine walks away. Nadia and Ruth hug. Mike walks towards the two of them, looks at them, and then walks away, looking at his phone.
RUTH: And, no, no, I am not late. No, it's only 11 ish.
NADIA: I don't know what I'm doing.
She looks over at Mike, who then leaves while talking on his phone.
NADIA: I was gonna go home and fuck this guy, but now I just feel so profoundly empty. Do you know when menopause starts?
RUTH: Uh, why don't we sit crooked and talk straight?
Cut to Maxine rolling a joint. Ruth and Nadia sit on a couch while Maxine sits in a chair opposite them.
NADIA: I don't know. I was having the most intense déjà vu, like I've done this already, you know? This night, this party.
RUTH: This conversation?
NADIA: No, this, this feels new. I think this is new. So that makes me think that, uh, you know, maybe I'm okay.
RUTH: This was always gonna be a tough birthday.
NADIA: Ruth, you know, you're a great shrink and everything, but you're not my shrink. And not everything is about Mom.
RUTH: But I think she would've been proud you made it to 36.
NADIA: Mmm. I don't know. I mean, she was pretty competitive. Eh, ipso facto, maybe she would've been pretty excited that I was actually finally older than she ever was.
RUTH: There you have it.
Maxine gets up.
MAXINE: Okay, I'm gonna make another chicken. Will you guys eat another chicken?
NADIA: Top ten idea. Top ten chicken.
A man picks up a projector.
MAN: Maxine, what is this?
Maxine takes it from him.
MAXINE: Oh. I got this at a Circuit City liquidation sale, but I put my own projections onto it. It's a little geeky, but I think you guys are gonna like it. Yeah?
MAN: Yeah.
MAXINE: Fine. Okay. Let's, let's get into it. Okay.
Maxine gets the projector set up. She then addresses the group.
MAXINE: This is a safe space. I'm looking for a communal experience and, and not a solo performance. Lights, please.
Maxine projects her art on the wall. “Morning After” by Ariel Pink & Weyes Blood starts playing. The camera slowly zooms in on Nadia. She gets a distressed look on her face and has a flashback to being hit by the taxi. She gets up and leaves. Maxine looks agitated. Cut to Nadia entering the bathroom. Lizzy and another woman are making out inside.
LIZZY: What the fuck? Oh, hey, Nad.
NADIA: I think I'm gonna throw up.
LIZZY: Are you okay?
NADIA: Lizzy, does this bathroom seem weird to you?
LIZZY: You drink too much?
WOMAN 1:  Me too.
NADIA: No. No, no, no, no, no. Not more than usual.
LIZZY: You smoke too much?
Nadia sits on the toilet.
NADIA: Uh, I can't remember the last time I ate, but then other things are so clear, you know? Like they already happened and I'm doing them again. I think I'm dead.
WOMAN 1: We're all dead.
LIZZY: Sees a Fellini film once.
JOHN: Hey, are you okay?
LIZZY: John, yeah, we're all good. Nad's just a little under the weather.
NADIA: No, no, no. Uh, I'm okay, I'm okay. It's okay. It's okay. I'm okay.
Lizzy and her friend leave. Another woman enters.
WOMAN 2: Are you fucking kidding me? There are people hopping up and down on one leg out here.
LIZZY: Oh, well, she's the birthday girl and he's her ex, so if I were you, I'd get a backup plan.
Lizzy herds the others out of the bathroom. She goes to close the door.
LIZZY: You guys aren't out in 20 minutes, I'll tell the line to wait longer.
NADIA: Okay, thanks, Lucy.
Lizzy closes the door.
JOHN: Hi.
NADIA: Hi.
Cut to a shot of the party. A woman leads her boyfriend by the hand to another part of the apartment. The camera follows them, then stops on John and Nadia at a table.
NADIA: Honestly, I think I'd feel better if you just told me, "You sound like a crazy bitch.”
JONG: No, I just want to understand. So you think you were hit by a car while you were chasing your cat, and now you're reliving your birthday?
NADIA: No, I don't think. I'm telling you it actually happened.
JOHN: Okay, well, let's say that you were actually hit by a car.
NADIA: Again, not hypothetical. Just a fact is what I'm trying to tell you.
JOHN: So somebody who was actually struck by a vehicle maybe would have marks or something. But you, right now, look fantastic. In fact, you look beautiful.
NADIA: Okay, thank you, but I feel like we're talking about something else-
JOHN: And remember-
NADIA: I'm grateful that you're complimenting me.
JOHN: I'm not-
NADIA: But you're not hearing me.
JOHN: I'm just saying it didn't seem like it affected you, whatever this thing that happened.
NADIA: Oh, I see. So now it's just a metaphor for our relationship.
JOHN: My point is, is that you're okay.
NADIA: Ah, yeah, I did smoke one of Maxine's joints, and I think that, uh, maybe it's just, yeah… me and cocaine are like oil and vinegar. I just think I'm not good at mixing substances.
JOHN: Or metaphors.
NADIA: Did I not say like oil and vinegar? Is that not a fucking simile? Okay, how are you?
JOHN: You really want to know?
NADIA: I do.
JOHN: Well, my divorce is straight up harrowing at this point, and the last six months of my life have been an onslaught of personal failure and, uh other people's misery.
NADIA: In a fun way? Sorry. How is Lucy?
JOHN: She's gonna be fine. But I miss you very much.
NADIA: Don't use your kid to try to guilt me to get back together.
JOHN: Don't use my kid to ease your guilt.
NADIA: I lost my cat.
JOHN: What do you mean? What happened to Oatmeal? Doesn't he go out down to the park and to the deli, like stuff like that?
Nadia puts her head down. John pats her reassuringly.
NADIA: It's been three days.
JOHN: You want to go find him?
Nadia shoots up.
NADIA: Really?
JOHN: Yeah.
CUT TO: EXT. SIDEWALK
Cut to a shot of John and Nadia walking together on the sidewalk.
NADIA: Remember littering?
JOHN: Remember Dinkins?
NADIA: Eh.
Nadia looks across the street. Cut to a homeless man outside of the park.
NADIA: I think I know this guy. Hey! Do I know you?
HORSE: What?
NADIA: Do we know each other?
HORSE: Fuck off!
JOHN: Sounds like you guys have a lot in common.
Cut to a shot of Oatmeal running outside the park. He meows.
NADIA: Oatmeal.
Nadia runs into the street. John pulls her out of the way just before she’s hit by a taxi.
JOHN: Hey! What are you doing? Did you not see that car?
NADIA: That was Oatmeal. Let's go.
JOHN: No, we're not going anywhere, okay? I'm taking you home cause you need to go to sleep.
NADIA: Wait, so now you're not gonna help me look for Oatmeal?
JOHN: I thought Oatmeal was a line you were using to get me to go home with you.
NADIA: Oh, you think I need a line.
JOHN: Yeah, because this is you we're talking about. I wouldn't have known it was your birthday party if Maxine hadn't texted me.
NADIA: Oh my god. Do you know who gets mad about not being invited to birthday parties? Little girls. Grow up. Jesus.
Nadia walks away from him into the street. She looks both ways. A car honks.
NADIA: Uh-oh, cars. Fucking Christ.
Nadia starts smoking as she continues walking. “If” by Kat Edmonson begins playing. Cut to Nadia entering the park. She looks around for Oatmeal.
NADIA: Oatmeal. Fuck.
Nadia spots Oatmeal in a bush.
NADIA: Oatmeal. Oatmeal. Come here, my little fucking baby.  My little maniac. Who's a little lost boy? Yeah, you're the fucking one.  You're the one, baby. I love you.
Cut to Nadia holding Oatmeal. She sits on a railing next to a river. Oatmeal purrs.
NADIA: Did we do it? Yeah, we fucking did it.
As Nadia looks around, the purring stops. She looks down. Oatmeal has disappeared from her arms.
NADIA: Oatmeal? The fuck? Fuck, fuck, fuck! Ah!
Nadia falls off of the railing into the river.
CUT TO: INT. MAXINE’S HOUSE
Cut to Nadia looking in the mirror. She spits up a load of water in the sink. She turns around and spits some more up on the floor. “Gotta Get Up” by Harry Nilsson starts playing.
NADIA: Oatmeal. Fuck.
There’s knocking on the door. Nadia opens the door.
NADIA: Fuck. Excuse me.
She exits past two women. Cut to the kitchen. Maxine is smoking and preparing food.
MAXINE: Sweet birthday baby, having fun? It’s laced-
NADIA: The universe is trying to fuck with me, and I refuse to engage. Do you hear me? I won't do it! And I don't give a fuck if you disappear my cat.
Maxine approaches a distressed Nadia.
MAXINE: Nadia, you're acting a little-
Nadia grabs the joint out of Maxine’s hand.
NADIA: What is in this?
MAXINE: It's laced with cocaine, just like the Israelis.
NADIA: No, man, no. I have tried cocaine many times, and nothing has ever fucked me up like this did.
MAXINE: Yeah, you haven't even smoked it yet.
NADIA: All right, Maxine. If there is a chance, I mean any chance, that there is something in here other than cocaine, I really need you to just tell me.
MAXINE: Come on, Nads. Stop acting like such a victim. You're a cockroach.
NADIA: I am not a cockroach. Why would you call me a cockroach? What does that even fucking mean, a cockroach?
MAXINE: You can eat anything, take anything, do anything. It's impossible to destroy you. You'll never die.
Nadia laughs hysterically.
NADIA: I am dying constantly! Ouch!
The cigarette burns Nadia’s fingers. She drops it.
MAXINE: Nads, if you're gonna act like this, then maybe you should just leave, okay?
NADIA: Hah!
Nadia walks away.
MAXINE: Don’t bail on my party for you!
Cut to outside the apartment. Mike is on the phone outside.
MIKE: Look, I'm at a work thing, so just call me when you get back into town. I miss you, too. Okay, bye.
Nadia bumps into Mike.
NADIA: Ow!
Nadia almost falls down the stairs. Mike catches her.
MIKE: Oh, whoa, whoa! Whoa, whoa, whoa. You almost took us both down.
NADIA: Thanks.
MIKE: Be careful.
NADIA: Fuck you.
Nadia turns away and heads down the stairs. Cut to her exiting the building.
NADIA: Fuck.
She sees the homeless man across the street.
NADIA: Be careful.
”Shallow Tears” by Light Asylum starts playing. Cut to an aerial shot of Nadia walking away from the building and across the street. The camera zooms out slowly.
END CREDITS