Kishawishi- Aye, aye, pass me that bottle right there
Chavonne- You done had enough my dude. You good?
Kishawishi- Yeah, yeah..
Chavonne- Aight..
Kishawishi- Shit..
See I know I ain't shit
I know my soul is my gift
I know I kill myself inside wit every bottle of gin
I know I want a million dollars and I know Imma get it
See what's unknown is once I'm rich I don't know how Imma spend it
I know my momma be set, that's with a crib and a car
We simple-minded though my family life is really bizarre
See we been broke since I was birthed but we ain't feel it at all
If we ain't have a single dollar we'd be richer than y'all
I know my pops would've stayed
If they ain't ship em away
Now that I think about it yo they really made him a slave
He was fightin' for stars & stripes good ole U S of the A
And then in a flash he sent to fight and probably sent to his grave
But shit I know it go
Yo that's just nature at work
Don't question you can't control it so just take what it's worth
I know I'm quick to place the blame long as I'm takin' it first
And it's easy to fake the talent but ain't no fakin' this work
I know I like to be alone to wander deep in my thoughts
Take a moment a silence then I just breathe and get lost
While I'm at it I like to think and write to beats from my heart
Swear this a passion it's a difference how we see the results
You see I see it as art I draw for interpretive minds
I just create for the hurt, from all this hurtin' of mines
But i ain't hurtin' I'm fine I know my curse is I'm blinded
To see the good in every soul that keep my focus divided
Guided by silence and the thought this day might come to an end
Plus I ain't guaranteed to ever see the sun up again
Know what's right and what's wrong is blurry so we comfortable sinnin'
A happy ending only comes if it was humble beginnings
I never mumble the rhythm bubblin' under the scope
From the gutter the underdog youngin' run for the goat
Writin' lyrics to touch ya soul you fall in love with the hope
And I know the feel of havin' money think i love bein' broke
Cuz in my heart so deep I know it's more to life than a check
But still I'm racin' after dollars tryna pay off my debt
Im 15,000 under I ain't even payin' the rent
Rather than gas it though I'm patient instead
Shit.. I know
I know....
I know...
I know...
I know, I know
I know, I know
I know, I know
Kishawishi- 
Chavonne- Oh shit. The fuck?
Kishawishi- 
Chavonne- Yo you... You good g?
Kishawishi-  Yeah... yeah. I.. I'm aight g
Chavonne- You sure?
I know my demons out to get me I'm the furthest thing from safe
But one thing I'll never do is feel imprisoned in my space
I put my life in every line you see it written on my face
I got an introverted spirit worth a milli in a case
Ain't no man I'll ever fear cuz that's a threat to my estate
When they talk ain't tryna hear it got my mind as my escape
Can't be dealin' wit they problems gotta mind what's on my plate
Bishh I'm a introverted spirit worth a milli in the case
I could wake up dyin' never know might die before I wake
Know that if I go my mind and soul is all that Imma take
But I still want all my dollars I like commas in my bank
I want the profit mothafuck a 9 to 5 is all I think.. I know
Kishawishi- 
Chavonne- Yo yo g! What the fuck is wrong with you kid?! Yo! G.. G stand up! Sta.. Ah shit... Fuck!
Kishawishi- 
Chavonne- Yo g! G... aye man
Kishawishi- Ahh fuck...
Chavonne- Yo!
Kishawishi- G!
Chavonne- What's good?
Kishawishi- Ah shit help me g! Fuck!
Chavonne- I'm tryin'! Yo, aight... fuck! I'm about to go get some help
Kishawishi- Ah shit...
Chavonne- Yo, g... you good? Yo... Wake up. Wake up!
Kishawishi- 