*gunshots* OKAY, I'M RELOADED!!!
You motherfuckers, think you big time?
Fuckin' with Jay-Z, you gon' die, big time!
Here come the "Pain"! *gunshots*
Jigga... , Bigga... 
Nigga, how you figure... 
Yeah, yeah, yeah
Ayo, peep the style and the way the cops sweat us 
The number one question is can the Feds get us 
I got vendettas in dice games against ass bettors 
And niggas who pump wheels and drive Jettas
Take that with ya
Hit ya, back split ya 
Fuck fist fights and lame scuffles 
Pillow case to your face, make the shell muffle 
Shoot your daughter in the calf muscle 
Fuck a tussle, nickel-plated
Sprinkle coke on the floor, make it drug-related 
Most hated
Can't fade it 
While y'all pump Willie, I run up and stunt silly 
Scared, so you sent your little mans to come kill me 
But on the con-trilli, I packs the MAC-milli
Squeezed off on him, left them paramedics breathin' soft on him
"What's ya name?"
Who shot ya? Mob ties like Sinatra 
Peruvians tried to do me in, I ain't paid them yet
Tryin' to push 700s, they ain't made them yet
Rolex and bracelets is frostbit; rings too
Niggas 'round the way call me Igloo, stick WHO?
Motherfucker!
Jay-Z and Biggie Smalls, nigga shit your drawers
 Brooklyn, goin' out for all
 That's right, you don't stop
 You won't stop 
What, what, what?
Jay-Z, Big' Smalls, nigga shit your drawers
Brooklyn represent y'all, hit you fold
You crazy, think your little bit of rhymes can play me?
I'm from Marcy, I'm varsity, chump, you're JV
 Jay-Z
Biggie baby! 
My Bed-Stuy flow's malicious, delicious
Fuck three wishes, made my road to riches
From 62s, Gemstars, my mom's dishes 
Gram choppin', police van dockin'
Ds at my doors knockin' 
Keep rockin', yeah
No more mister nice guy, I twist your shit
The fuck back with the pistols blazin'
Hot like Cajun 
Hotter than even holdin' work at the Days Inn
With New York plates outside
Get up out of there! Fuck the ride!
Keep your hands high, shit gets steeper 
Here comes the Grim Reaper, Frank White!
Need the keys to your InnKeeper 
Chill, homie, the bitch in the Shoney's told me
You're holdin' more drugs than a pharmacy
You ain't harmin' me, so pardon me
Pass the safe, before I blaze the place
And here's six shots just in case
Jay-Z and Biggie Smalls, nigga shit your drawers
 Brooklyn goin' out to all
 You don't stop
 You won't stop 
 Jay-Z and Biggie Smalls, nigga shit your drawers
 Brooklyn goin' out to all
 You don't stop
 You won't stop 
Yeah, yeah, yeah
For '9-6, the only MC with a flu
Yeah I rhyme sick, I be what you're trying to do
Made a fortune off Peru, extradite, china white her-on
Nigga please, like short sleeves I bear arms 
Stay out my way from here on  Gone! 
Me and Gutta had two spots
The 2-for-5 dollar hits, the blue tops 
Gotta go, Coolio mean it's gettin' Too Hot
If Fay' had twins, she'd probably have two Pacs 
Get it? Tu... Pac's?
Uhh, uhh, uhh
Time to separate the pros from the cons 
The platinum from the bronze
That butter-soft shit from that leather on the Fonz 
A S1 diamond from a I class don
A Chandon sipper from a Rosé nigga, huh?!
Brook-Nam, sippin' on
Cristal forever, play the crib when it's mink weather 
The M.A.F.I.A. keep cannons in they Marc Buchanans 
Usually cuatro cinco, the shell sink slow
Tossin' ya, mad slugs through your Nautica
I'm warnin' ya 
Jay-Z and Biggie Smalls, nigga shit ya drawers
 Brooklyn goin' out to all
 You don't stop
 That's right, you won't stop 
Jay-Z and Biggie Smalls, nigga shit your drawers
 Brooklyn goin' out to all
 You don't stop 
 You won't stop 
"Is Brooklyn in the house?"
Uhh, Roc-A-Fella y'all, Junior M.A.F.I.A
Supermen clique
Brooklyn's Finest, you re-wind this
Representing BK to the fullest