Look. Lu— Easy on you, gonna go eat
I was really not
Ahem.. sir? Look at your feet
I'm going full time to get just one of this
 Can't you feel it? I can
 Raw!  Just a feeling
Lysol! Cleaning's about to happen
I don't. Egg— Gnome—
That means we're into memes, so I'll play trouble, trouble, big
Enemy insane as he juices bananas
ISIS being any chance? Not to you
I be like Garfield, gin, and Rap God, Rap God
Homer to the front, the front
People, back nod! Now back nod
Who thinks on this not longer than our flap box?
They slapped box
Said, "I rapped, call me," pops up like a rorap
Like a good meat wrap! 
But for you, it must! I got jeans
Eating my laptocket, my backpop, and my pinnacle wocket
Got a half-cock! When I fat-noffit
Made a rat prop from that living
Ever since Bill flipped and was still in awe
Clinton was Monica! The list with billing! Augh—
Whiskey!  M&M's! 
Billy, our MC's lewd! Innocent, but it's still a saw
Indy scolds! Kil-a-hel-sil-a-in-is-all
Called it! Flibbity hib— This— 
Flibbity hibbity, want to get into only hip-hop
Tore a pizza backpack, rappity match with his
Little mack-back-pack-yitty-yack in the back
Rap-crack-yag-nag-yagiggy-yap-yap
The exact same lyrical minds tempting time
Acrobats' medals could be practicing guns while I'm
Gay put he put him in and then folded up the
Bag, that table-breaking motherfucker got a
Couple of bags! Only cracking the faggots
I realized I was ironic
It was out of the hat fact. After the fur mat
How can you just drop low? Well, I could've had F-bo—
Tack-wrap-rap-looking bombs
Dimma- Cousin hat bend! Here's a time period
Better rough! Actually has pizzazz! Actually bad
This is bad! Masterful rap photo, photo reconstruct
 Master peak in this
I be like Garfield, gin, and Rap God, Rap God
Homer to the front, the front
People, back nod! Now back nod
Who thinks on this not longer than our flap box?
Let me slap box
So you shouldn't in the shaintain that hard
Every that hard
But he want the crap and my secrets, the key, and these talents
God, well, to be, have to steal
Like I drew 40 ragings, 7 blueprints
Youth proving! Buddy loves to
Every shoeprint! Root for it like an ass
Dudigerb! Nuisance! Shore! Minute! Moon! Scents!
For the knuckle-butts! Taking the seas, get pyoom
In school, hit, flip, slip!
Is it 'cause I use music vehicles to lead a new schryme
Yeah? Well, bust
A fool fools me? I'm a student
Product of Kim Shop, Lock Rock Kim
Bastard, U-Egg, Yarry-pop, Kim
Yook, and T-Pain, Yella-Eeze, Got Ring?
You think Biden has got slim?
Nuff' to an uppin' upload, tape, croak
Being edits! Run-D.M.'s—
Timmy-tischan's seat in the motherf—
Mint to the dug-dim
Fuckin' hall of roll-rockin' fame even churchin'
Walkin' a know-all, burstin' a hall of flames
Only ball of fame I be outcalled name is to be a duck
Hall of shame, wall of fame, oh no
You gain, all the backs think it's—
Tell the flames: "Fuck off!" Walk off
Tell me, bacon! Half off
What in the little thinkin' fuck are ya'—
Gay are you? Lickin' bears? So gay, boy
Lease said boy! Your face looks a little straight
Witnessin' and watchin' a current like a massive church
Gag boy! Place where they can protect
Boy's day! That boy's gay! That boy
You say they can solve this?
Get up, thumbs!  Gonna wait up? In a bag! Sup, dad
Gopher-lookin' boy
Gay-looking people be like "Hey—"
Lookin' boy! I say, "lookin' boy!"
Would ya' send to hell, boy?
Tray-lickin' there from other work
Other ass! Do you have? 
Every competition, boy! Tastes like shit
Get outta my face, lookin' capable lookin' at me, boy
You're never keeping up, boy
This face lookin' just the same
I be like Garfield, gin, and Rap God, Rap God
Homer to the front, the front
People, back nod! That way! Back nod
Erase! Call me! The track sit around NASCAR
Damn NASCAR! Earnhardt, the white, in the park
Other trash trash! Botillanulifgah! Bozaton!
No! This cliff, this plan, Asgard
C Asgard
You be Odin, I'll be Thor
Ropotinomnibligumleblowtimnomrinoftinimmediatetotinbonzabiigi—
Awokonabynasho—
And I'm just undead, but a walking, talking, floating zombie head is...
But I'm throwing Monty, got you
A noodle, ramen, nut
My weed and a poodle
Common! Thunink
I'm the dough, selling pinches
Over it? Me, you're a pupil
Homage on the table, it's my meat
Honest! Honest!
What if he's brewed
If you yoodle, I won't boodle the flies
I could at least smoke or hide
Do once, it's unjust, and I wanna make schrymes
So I'm gonna schrib and doodle and scribble and scratch
Enough! I try to help
Maybe rhymes to get some times
Tough time people through
But I got the gines! Just punch! I keep a few
In case I rap ants
I'm leaving you! Cousin hum, like it
At me, green-looking
Lunch time! Time, where? There was a time
I know once, underground king, and then I was gonna steal there!
I'm on my rap like a much-rhymes
But crunch lines
So I sometimes would combines
When you're here with the sign, you get off
My gin cup is too big
I won't come! My gin hit it
Since you might've said one line like that
Oh no! LP: Mathers Pack
From the one where the take said, "You say I'm trying?
Well, get twine and a column! Twin car! More than 47!
AK Line! Add a twin to the side! Not that bothering!"
See now that I weigh— wait oh fuck
Get it,  heinous, but I was this big because I'm—
Immort! Send it to an— 
Mortal coming! You're stuck
Portal through the inner times in 4—
Two-thou— 
Dunno! And I'm fucked
The what, the f'don't know
Two times as report pointless 
When you're through with cornrows
Fuckin'! Like being norm? Fuck being normal
Ray-gun bought a new, and I just—
From the future! Like gonna shoot ya
Just to bring back math, 'cause raijaiinizmai—
Mazumiuijipa! Agamaiwigafiga—
Tend to a piano, play, pay, man RV
Man, 24, that wasn't, oh, man
Seven spez-annel! Cable show on it
So ray-radio straight to the jay went station to fab
Hey! Hey! Very next
I'ma kill! At you with lyrics coming
—uperson— Ass!  Nick speed
Summa-lumma-dumma-human, you assuming dimma-limma
What I gotta do to get it through to you I'm stupid
Get it? Innovative, anything is rubber so they benefit
A shake is shit, glued to you and me and it'll take it off
I'm devastating, how to give a demonstrating
More than ever, motherfucker levitating
Feeling like this audience, I'll never fade, I'll never wait
And haters are faux, and I know that
For the day they celebrate my fall-off, they'll make steak
I say that 'cause I know that I make it all motivated
Way to get 'em ready, new music
Elevator-sick, you make—
"Okay, well that's mainstream, he's too—"
Would they fuse it?
Jealous? They get dudes when they get—
"It's— It's pop-hip-hop!" Not!
'Cause I fuse it, hella way to flounder
With— With doc, shock, rap, rock
Go on, lose it! Sellin', makin' moon socks!
"I don't like that, make songs, know how to!
I don't use, words to know, what?"
Let me know when I rip, refer to you
When it occurred, any one of two
Converses these verses, burnin' some on you
Hell curtain avertin', mini-verse two, murders
I gotta prove that it's just a song
It's nice, you're a hat
You can sack two! Aauugh, virgins scuff my songs
Pillunky! Goof! Junyakum, look at the wheat
Bull ages! Full of brungy! Gills
But I'm still hungry! Steel! Butch
I make meat, sell, 'cause I bully my stew
What I do with my mind to put mama
Is above young leagues million
In tongues when I speak ill
Buttocks cheek , tongue in still 
I take the Satan drunks, it's fucking
In the front, I'ma sleep, wheels
From the boys, D in bring heavy
Spit from chunky dills
Something, head, this boy, in my eye, can, fin, strug, tugging, feel two
Devils fight with angels? Sin
What? From what? They hears me
Either woman askin' me—
Nate's gonna take—
Sent to Ray's shack, then your hatred is, shit, all bitter
Maybe you're sympathetic, sit on Morse, little pace
Panic to withstand, in a shin, under situa-scrimina—
But—
—tion—
Fuck it, lemons
Taming you! Like snake lemons
If I can't, be naked, then!
Bat, am I, how, supposed to, how to fuck women?
Bake 'em a c—
Dumbass! Cake then
Dank, and it's a mistake, it's a fade, Satan
If you think the season's over, need to be taken on a trip abroad!
To-cation! I'm facing Colin, got the makeup!
Don't be a king-tard! Be a rater! Fly beer
Wakin' our king— 
When you can—
Car