Urban African-American Key TermsThe largest metropolitan in the United States, New York City, has become the birthplace of African-American literary style. During the Great Migration in the 1910's, African-American literature has revolved around the hardships of inner-city adversity and racism experienced through the trek from the southern U.S. to New York City. On behalf of the Great Migration, the Harlem Renaissance erupted in the 1920's-1930's in Harlem and gave way to a cultural movement in the African-American community through jazz music and poetry. This movement would ultimately connect the theme of misery of the Great Migration to that of literary freedom expressed in the Harlem Renaissance. Understanding the significance of New York City, specificallyHarlem, helps define how central cultural geotagging is to urban African-American literature. In order to deftly comprehend the importance of location and themes, I have created a list of key terms and excerpts.
Hard-Knock Life
Hard-Knock Life is a term used for describing a life full of adversities and  hardships. During their migration from the South to the inner-city slums of New York City, African-Americans faced many struggles through racism and lack of job opportunities, which led to high crime and violence.
Text Excerpt : Nas "N.Y. State of Mind"
"I think of crime when I'm in a New York state of mind"City of Paradox
City of Paradox is a theme used for emphasizing the paradox of New York City seen as the "land of opportunity." For many African-Americans who traveled to the North in hopes of better job opportunities, reality struck them with social oppression and racism in the job market unlike their first impressions.
Text Excerpt :  Rudolph Fisher "The City of Refuge"
"...city of refuge if you live long enough..."Block of Bloodhounds
Block of Bloodhounds is a term created to envision the city surrounded by bloodhounds, or people in quick pursuit of either your money, job, or anything that would benefit them. Especially in the slums of Harlem, African-Americans faced these "bloodhounds" who created fear in the city.
Text Excerpt : Harriet Ann Jacobs "The Fugitive Slave Law"
"a disgrace to a city calling itself free, that inhabitants, guiltless of offense...should be condemned to live in such incessant fear..."Polluted Society
Polluted Society is a term used to describe how dirty and grimy the poor African-American slums were in New York City. The term also refers to how tainted the community was with violence and destitution that would also characterize slums.
Text Excerpt : Paul Laurence Dunbar "The Fourth of July and Race Outrages"
"industrial prejudice...violated homes...from long beating at the door of opportunity..."Bohemian Lifestyle
Bohemian Lifestyle refers to the artistic and hipster community setting enjoyed by the jazz musicians in New York City. Opposed to the oppressed slums that is usually acquainted with African-American urban lifestyles, the Bohemian Lifestyle is used to show the positive results that the Harlem Renaissance did bring for the lucky few in the music scene.
Text Excerpt : James Baldwin"Sonny's Blues"
"...a joint in the Village...downtown...his kingdom..."City of Lights
The City of Lights theme is meant to express the idea of that "there is always a light at the end of a tunnel" and also to highlight the multitude of bright lights New York skyscrapers emit. African-Americans, distraught by the unending discrimination, always find a way to fight through adversity and cling onto the lights of the New York City buildings in hopes of one day belonging to the upper-class that is associated with these skyscrapers.
Text Excerpt : Jay Z Ft. Alicia Keys "Empire State of Mind"
"Big lights will inspire you"