We present a developmental model that describes normal peer relations and highlights processes that
underlie the emergence of problems with peers in childhood. We propose that children’s relationships
with peers begin in the first years of life, with stable individual differences and preferences for particular
peers emerging by three years of age. Social skills that facilitate peer relationships consolidate in the
preschool years, during which time peer groups become structured with respect to friendship groups,
gender, and dominance relations; some children begin to be rejected by their peers. In later childhood
some children develop entrenched problems with peer relationships, in terms of loneliness, bullying and
victimisation. Underlying cognitive and emotional processes that facilitate successful peer relationships
at all ages are identified, and the extent to which peer relations play a causal role in the genesis of
disorder is evaluated. A review of the evidence suggests that, rather than a simple pathway from
problematic peer relations to disorder, there is a reciprocal relationship between children’s problems
with peers and their psychological problems from infancy to adolescence.
‘ The chicken came first, ‘cause who else laid the egg?’’
‘No, ‘cause a long time ago, you know what, an egg, it
sprouted out of the ground.’
‘Uh-uh, the chicken came first, the chicken came first!’
(Two nursery school classmates, recorded in Caplan,
1986)
The aim of this review is to propose a developmental
model that both describes the normal course
of children’s relations with peers and draws attention
to cognitive and emotional problems that make
it difficult for some children to cope with peers. There
is no doubt that peers play important, and sometimes
critical, roles in children’s lives, as attested to
by the very many reviews on this topic (e.g., Deater-
Deckard, 2001; Rubin, Bukowski, & Parker, 1998).
The study of peer relations is particularly germane
for those who are interested in childhood disorders.
There is bi-directional influence between peer relationships
and children’s disorders, in a manner
that evokes the well-known conundrum quoted
above. Children’s problems with peers may contribute
to the genesis of disorder, in particular anxiety,
depression and conduct disorder; conversely, children
with disorders may find themselves at odds
with their peers from the very first years of life.
We shall argue that the relationship between peer
relations and children’s risk for disorder is best
understood by taking the long view, and examining
the early development of the ability to relate to peers,
beginning in the first months of life. In this paper,
the developmental model that we propose charts the
beginnings of peer interaction in infancy, describes
the consolidation of important skills in the childhood
years and finally draws attention to some entrenched
problems that arise when children spend more of
their time in organised peer groups. With respect to
each phase of the proposed developmental pathway
to problematic peer relationships (i.e., beginnings of
interest in peers, consolidation of skills and emergence
of problematic relationships), we note evidence
for: dyadic relationships and group relations; stable
and coherent individual differences; and underlying
cognitive and emotional processes. Finally, we consider
whether peer relations play a causal role in the
genesis of disorder and whether, conversely, relationships
with peers serve protective functions in
development.
We believe that the study of children’s relationships,
with peers as well as with family members and
other adults, is best done in appreciation of the fact
that children’s lives are bound up with complex social
networks . Rather
than entering into ultimately unsatisfying debates
about the differential contribution of parents and
peers to children’s development, it is important to
strive to understand the interplay of different types
of relationships within children’s social networks.
Hence the developmental progressions in children’s
abilities to relate to peers that we describe must be
seen in the context of the other important relationships
in children’s lives.
Nevertheless, for present purposes, to limit the
scope of this review, there are good reasons to
examine peer relations in their own right. Most human
infants are born into a world that contains other
infants. Many are cared for in group settings, and
most others encounter peers in the course of their
daily lives, as their parents and siblings spend time
with other parents and children. As children grow
older, their social networks become increasingly
complex, containing friends and acquaintances unknown
to their family members. Therefore, to be able
to predict which children will find it most difficult to
relate to peers, it is important to examine peer relationships
in longitudinal perspective, and to seek
antecedents to problems in the first years of life. With
Journal of Child Psychology and Psychiatry 45:1 , pp 84–108
Association for Child Psychology and Psychiatry, 2004.
Published by Blackwell Publishing, 9600 Garsington Road, Oxford OX4 2DQ, UK and 350 Main Street, Malden, MA 02148, USA
its focus on the early determinants of problematic
peer relationships, our review complements the recent
Annotation on peer relations for this journal
. The model proposed here
focuses primarily on development from early infancy
to late childhood. We do not describe adolescent peer
relations in great detail, but do examine adolescent
outcomes when evaluating the contribution of peers
to the genesis of disorder.
Because of our primary focus on links between
peer relations and childhood disorder, we have reviewed
the relevant literature in developmental psychology
and child psychiatry. Much of this research
pertains to the lives of children in Western industrialised
nations. We have cited cross-cultural evidence
where possible. However, we have not conducted a
thorough review of the ethnographic literature on
children’s relationships with peers in many different
cultures (for further consideration of the issues that
arise when making comparisons of children’s social
experiences across cultures, see Harkness, 2002;
Shweder et al., 1998).
Beginnings
The study of the beginnings of peer relations has
ebbed and flowed with fashion in developmental research,
and many important findings date from
bursts of activity in the 1930s and 1970s. Here we
draw on some of those classic studies, as well as
more recent observations, to sketch the development
of the capacity to relate to one’s agemates.
Emotional reactions
For infants in the industrialised West, life often begins
in hospital, and it has long been thought that
newborn infants influence their peers in the hospital
nursery by making them cry (Sagi & Hoffman, 1976;
Simner, 1971). Thus, the matching of negative
emotion with another infant constitutes the first
form of peer interaction that is easily documented.
Contagious crying is not coincidental (Hay, Nash, &
Pedersen, 1981), but little is known about individual
differences in sensitivity to the emotions of a peer. It
is possible that variations in responsiveness to
young peers may relate to general individual differences
in emotionality and behavioural inhibition,
and indeed to early emerging differences in neuroendocrine
functioning (e.g., Lewis & Ramsay, 1995;
Gunnar & Donzella, 2002).
Communicative gestures
By the second half of the first year of life, infants
smile at, reach toward and touch other infants
(Hay, Nash, & Pedersen, 1983; Vandell, Wilson, &
Buchanan, 1980). These behaviours appear at about
the same time or shortly after they first appear with
adult caregivers, and so competence within both
types of relationships develops in parallel (Hay,
1985; Vandell, 1980). An important development in
parent–infant relationships is the capacity to engage
in interactions that have a topic, namely, where infant
and parent interact with reference to a particular
object .1 Such
‘topic-related’ interaction between infant peers is
characteristic of the second year of life, when infants
direct their peers’ attention to toys, food and other
objects by pointing, holding up, or offering such
objects to their peers (e.g., Eckerman, Davis, &
Didow, 1989).
Dyadic interactions
Contingency. Contingent responsiveness is an important
dimension of infants’ interactions with
caregivers and other adults, which have been described
as dialogic in nature, with a to-and-fro between
infant and adult that resembles a turn-taking
sequence. Contingent peer interactions can also be
observed as early as 6 months of age, in terms of
sequences in which infants touch each other or toys
held by their peers; the rate of such contingent sequences
distinguishes particular pairs of babies
from other dyads . Infants are better
able to sustain interactions with peers if toys
are not present (Hay et al., 1983; Jacobson, 1981;
Vandell et al., 1980).
Cooperation, sharing and responses to peers’
distress. Although young children were long
thought to be incapable of engaging in cooperative
play, one-year-olds have been observed to engage in
cooperative games with their peers, taking part in
sustained interactions that entail mutual engagement,
repetition of key actions, alternating of turns,
and a playful, ‘non-literal’ quality .
Across a number of different cultures the joyful,
exuberant quality of toddlers’ cooperative play has
been noted .
Other early forms of prosocial behaviour (sharing,
helping, and comforting peers who are in distress)
emerge around the first birthday. Some investigators
report an increase in prosocial behaviour over the
second year (Zahn-Waxler, Radke-Yarrow, Wagner,
& Chapman, 1992), but studies of one- and twoyear-
olds with their peers show no clear trends (Hay,
Caplan, Castle, & Stimson, 1991; Hay, Castle,
Davies, Demetriou, & Stimson, 1999); indeed, oneyear-
olds are significantly more likely than two-yearolds
to share in response to peers’ requests for
objects . Interactions involving the
1 Some investigators refer to object-focused interaction as ‘triadic’;
however, in the context of peer relations, this terminology
is confusing. In this paper the term ‘triadic interaction’ refers to
exchanges amongst three individuals.
Peer relations in childhood 85
giving of objects decline over time (Eckerman et al.,
1989).
Conflictand the beginnings ofaggression. Although
one-year-olds share and sustain cooperative interaction,
they also engage in conflict with peers and
sometimes use force to pursue their aims. Most
conflicts between young peers concern the possession
of toys and other objects ; another
common source of problem is one infant’s
violation of another’s personal space (Hay & Ross,
1982). Although early writers characterised infants’
conflicts as ‘socially blind’ pursuits of interest in
particular toys , conflicts
between young peers are characterised by communicative
gestures, and signs of social influence (Hay &
Ross, 1982).
Two ways in which toddlers direct force against
their peers – hitting them and wresting toys from
their grasp – may be precursors to later forms of
personal and instrumental aggression, respectively.
The instrumental grabbing of toys, which is more
common, declines over time, becoming less frequent
than spontaneous sharing; in contrast, hitting
shows no significant decline over time, remaining at
stable, low rates .
Younger toddlers show more frequent, brief aggression,
whereas older toddlers show fewer, but more
sustained, aggressive behaviours (Fagot & Hagan,
1985). These precursors to aggression peak around
30 months of age .
Adult behaviour affects toddlers’ responses to
conflict. Mothers frequently intervene in their children’s
conflicts with peers, usually supporting the
peers rather than their own children; mothers of
daughters are especially likely to urge yielding to
peers . However,
the presence of mothers in playgroup or domestic
settings can inhibit positive interaction between
peers (Field, 1979; Rubenstein, Howes, & Pedersen,
1982).
Dyadic preferences and the beginnings
of friendship
Infants do not respond in an undifferentiated way
to other infants. In general, infants are more likely
to respond positively to unfamiliar peers than to
unfamiliar adults . Furthermore,
infants interact in different ways with familiar
as opposed to unfamiliar peers (Stefani & Camaioni,
1983; Young & Lewis, 1979). Infants and toddlers
who spend their daily lives together develop clear
preferences for certain companions, evident in studies
in day-care centres 
and in kibbutz toddler houses . Toddlers
who are cared for in mixed age groups sometimes
prefer to play with older peers rather than with
agemates . Preferences
for peers of one’s own sex also emerge in the
toddler years, particularly evident on the part of
older girls (Howes & Phillipsen, 1992; Hay et al.,
1999). However, preferences for particular peers are
also related to each toddler’s behavioural traits
.
Individual differences in early competence
with peers
Consistent individual differences have been found in
the quality of play with peers during the first years of
life . Variations amongst individual
infants and toddlers are predicted by dimensions of
the broader social environment, including experience
with siblings (Vandell, Wilson, & Whalen, 1981;
Vandell & Wilson, 1987), attachment figures (Easterbrooks
& Lamb, 1979; Pastor, 1981; but see also
Howes, Matheson, & Hamilton, 1994), and other
caregivers .
Is this individual variation in early peer relations
at all consequential for children’s later development,
and for their risk for disorder? There is reason to
believe that stable individual differences in competence
with peers emerge in the first years of life. For
example, longitudinal assessments of a group of 55
children seen at intervals between 1 and 9 years of
age indicated that toddlers’ competent play with
peers predicted later competence as preschoolers
and 9-year-olds . Those
toddlers who were capable of engaging in complex
play with peers were more prosocial in the preschool
setting and less likely to show either aggressive or
withdrawn behaviour as 9-year-olds.
It is of particular interest to note that individual
differences in precursors to externalising and internalising
problems – and consequent risk for disruptive
behaviour disorder and emotional disorder,
respectively – may be discerned in the first years of
life. Aggression in the toddler years is often thought
to be normative. However, closer inspection of the
literature on peer relations shows that, although
many toddlers may use force occasionally, the frequent,
proactive and dysregulated use of aggression
in early life is a minority phenomenon that may index
risk for later externalising problems (Hay, in
press). Stable individual differences in aggression
and externalising problems emerge in the toddler
years (Fagot & Leve, 1998; Hay et al., 2000; Keenan
1& Wakschlag, 2002; Rubin, Bukowski, & Parker,
1998; Rubin, Burgess, Dwyer, & Hastings, 2003;
Shaw, Keenan, & Vondra, 1994). In one study
greater long-term stability was found for boys
 but
other studies have noted stability in girls’ aggression
.
With respect to internalising tendencies, there is
evidence that socially inhibited behaviour in preschool
settings is also predicted by earlier patterns of
inhibition with peers. Toddlers who show behavioural
inhibition in the presence of peers are likely
86 Dale F. Hay, Alexandra Payne, and Andrea Chadwick
to continue to be shy 4-year-olds (Rubin, Burgess, &
Hastings, 2002).
Underlying skills
The foregoing evidence for stable individual differences
in competence with peers in the first three
years of life suggests that attempts to prevent peer
problems from developing may need to begin rather
earlier than initially thought. An infant’s ability to
engage successfully in interaction with peers rests
on a number of achievements in the first years of life,
whereby newly emerging cognitive skills and selfregulatory
abilities equip young humans to engage
in and sustain social interaction with a number of
different partners. We propose that the following
processes underlie harmonious interaction between
young peers . Deficits in any or all of
these skills may interfere with successful peer
relations.
Joint attention. Social interaction depends on the
ability to coordinate attention with another person;
this ability develops with adult partners over the last
half of the first year of life (e.g., Butterworth, 2001;
Striano & Rochat, 1999). Joint attention in the second
year predicts theory of mind skills two years
later . Initiating bids for other
people’s attention and responding to the bids of
others are both associated with patterns of frontal
lobe activation and deactivation (Mundy, Card, &
Fox, 2000).
The regulation of gaze and the use of communicative
gestures are important components of early
peer interaction, particularly when more than one
peer might be present . Gestures
that serve to regulate another person’s attention –
e.g., pointing to or holding up objects for another to
see – are incorporated into peer interaction as early
as 12 months of age ; thus successful
peer interaction requires being able to read
as well as produce such signals. Infants and toddlers
with deficits in joint attention skills may be ill
equipped to sustain bouts of nonverbal interaction
with their peers. Peers, unlike parents, cannot take
into account the developmental level of their partners
and scaffold the interaction accordingly.
Emotion regulation. Joint attention between an infant
and another person also has a positive affective
component that contributes to pleasurable social
interaction . In
general, the ability to regulate one’s emotion, in
particular negative reactions to momentary frustration,
is an important skill called upon by the demands
of peer interaction. It has been reported that
infants generally show lower levels of affect with
peers than with their mothers (Adamson & Bakeman,
1985); however, challenging situations produce
a broader range of individual differences in
emotion regulation (Miller, McDonough, Rosenblum,
& Sameroff, 2002), and conflict with peers may be
one such emotionally charged setting. It should be
noted that self-regulatory behaviours are more successful
in reducing anger than in reducing fear (Buss
& Goldsmith, 1998), which has implications for
toddlers who are aggressive as opposed to fearful of
their peers. Interventions that focus on emotion
regulation strategies may be more successful with
the former than the latter.
Differences in the ability to regulate emotion hark
back to excessive crying in very early infancy (e.g.,
Stifter & Spinrad, 2002) and are also linked to attachment
security (Diener, Mangelsdorf, McHale, &
Frosch, 2002). Thus problems in emotion regulation
may mediate some links between parent–child and
peer relations.
Inhibitory control. Although a generally inhibited
temperament in infancy predicts later shyness with
peers , inhibitory
processes are required for successful social interaction.
Inhibitory control is an important dimension of
executive function, applied in response to novel
challenges . When meeting new
acquaintances, infants must inhibit impulses to explore
their peers as they would objects; intrusions on
peers’ personal space provoke conflict (Caplan&Hay,
1991; Hay & Ross, 1982). To the extent that exploratory
behaviour is primarily directed to novel
stimuli, this type of exploration of peers may naturally
decrease upon extended acquaintance. Those
infants and toddlers who continue to use physical
exploration with peers rather than more distal, communicative
gestures or words may be disadvantaged.
Joint
Attentio n
Emotion al
Regulati on
Inhibitory
Contro l
Imitation
Causal
Understanding
Language
Harmonious
Interactions
with Pee rs
Figure 1 Very early competence with peers is likely to
be supported by emotional, cognitive and behavioural
skills, as depicted in the hypothesised developmental
model
Peer relations in childhood 87
Infants must also suppress their tendencies to
seize toys held by their peers, a behaviour that is
already present at 6 months of age, especially in boys
. Attempts to grab toys from peers
declines over time ; children who
cannot inhibit the impulse to grab may be reacted to
quite negatively by their peers.
Imitation. Imitation is an important means whereby
infants and toddlers succeed in interacting harmoniously
with their peers .
Matching the peer’s behaviour is an important
strategy for interaction amongst younger toddlers;
this strategy emerges around the same time in very
different cultural contexts (Eckerman & Whitehead,
1999). With age, interactions are more likely to be
complementary, rather than precisely imitative (Camaioni,
Baumgartner, & Perucchini, 1991). However,
both imitative matching of another’s behaviour
and complementary activities play an important part
in maintaining cooperative games .
Causal understanding. Successful social interaction
depends on a mutual understanding of each
participant’s status as an active and intentional
agent. For young peers, therefore, an important task
is the appreciation that another infant may be the
agent of one’s own experiences, be they good or bad.
Conversely, it is important to appreciate when
unpleasant events occur by accident, and are not
intentionally caused by one’s peers. This level of
social understanding is underpinned by more general
comprehension of cause-and-effect relationships
in the world.
Current research on infants’ understanding of
causality in the physical world suggests that
understanding of cause-and-effect relations develops
over infancy, with important strides being made
in the last half of the first year of life (Oakes, 1994;
Desrochers, Ricard, Decarie, & Allard, 1994).
Younger infants are sensitive to causal relationships
in some tasks but not others (Belanger & Desrochers,
2001; Oakes, 1994).
Of particular relevance to peer relations is the
challenge of perceiving cause-and-effect in social
interaction, which constitutes one of the first earliest
forms of social understanding. Even quite young
infants are sensitive to human-like motion that adult
observers interpret as causal (Rochat, Morgan, &
Carpenter, 1997). Infants also show sensitivity to
physical displays that suggest human beings are
approaching , and to
negative vs. positive social interactions (Premack &
Premack, 1997). However, only somewhat older
toddlers appear to comprehend more complex causal
sequences, such as those found in complex bouts of
social interaction (Cohen, Rundell, Spellman, &
Cashon, 1999). It is not yet known whether there are
stable individual differences in causal understanding
in the toddler years, nor whether these
impact on actual interaction with peers. However,
causal understanding is associated with two sets of
skills used in social contexts, infants’ intentional
communications  and
social referencing .
Toddlers also show an understanding of their
peers as intentional agents in the course of conflicts
over toys, when one toddler reaches for or gestures
toward a particular object that is in the possession of
the peer. In response to such gestures, peers are
often likely to withdraw the object, or move away
from the peer , or, less frequently,
give it to the peer . The former,
suspicious responses to peers’ indications of
interest in an object are correlated with aggression,
especially proactive aggression ,
whereas the latter, more generous behaviour is
positively correlated with sensitivity to peers’ distress
. Thus an understanding of
the intentions of peers as social agents may be
viewed as an early step in the development of a theory
of mind, and is correlated with both aggression
and prosocial behaviour.
Language. As soon as toddlers acquire some words,
they use them in interaction with their peers, although
nonverbal means of interacting remain more
important for some time .
Speech to peers is used both as a means of expressing
one’s desires and pursuing one’s aims in conflict,
without using overt aggression, and in attempts
to resolve conflict . Toddlers’
comments concerning the possession and use of
objects, and the display of manners, are related to
both aggression and sharing . In a large
sample of 19-month-old twins, expressive vocabulary
was significantly and negatively related to
physical aggression (Dionne, Tremblay, Boivin,
Laplante, & Pe´russe, 2003).
Implications for children with developmental
disorders
The foregoing consideration of the various skills that
underlie successful interaction with peers suggests
that young children with developmental disorders
may be at a particular disadvantage. For example,
for children with disorders in the autistic spectrum,
impairment of joint attention skills (Charman et al.,
1997) and deficits in imitation (Rogers, Hepburn,
Stackhouse, & Wehner, 2003) might hinder adjustment
to peers in group settings. It is also possible
that language delay might impede peer relationships
. Thus some of the problems
with peer relations seen in mainstreamed preschool
classrooms (e.g., Guralnick, Connor, Hammond,
Gottman, & Kinnish, 1996; Guralnick et al., 1998)
may partly derive from deficits in skills typically
acquired in the course of the first years of life.
This possibility deserves further investigation.
88 Dale F. Hay, Alexandra Payne, and Andrea Chadwick
Conversely, comparisons of children with developmental
disorders with typically developing children
may draw attention to the processes that underlie
successful peer interaction.
Consolidation of social skills and group relations
During the next few years of life, most children
consolidate their social skills and form pleasurable
relationships with other children. In the industrial
West, this often takes place in the context of organised
groups, in nursery schools, day-care centres
and recreational activities. New ways of relating to
peers come to prominence in the preschool years. As
children spend more time in groups, their experience
comes to be organised with respect to particular
friendships, gender-related preferences, and dominance
hierarchies. It is against this background of
increasing social competence and more rigid group
structure that some children’s difficulties in dealing
with their peers become apparent.
Types of interactions in early childhood
Conversation. As children acquire language and
fluent vocabularies, they spend more time simply
talking to their peers. Conversational competence is
greatest in familiar situations, where children can
draw on reserves of ‘script knowledge’ for their conversations
with peers .
Preschoolers use their conversational abilities for
many different purposes; for example, they may seek
information, argue, agree or disagree with peers, and
tell stories . Young
children take their conversations seriously: information
received in conversation with peers may
distort preschoolers’ memories of actual events
.
Conversational competence is one factor that affects
the extent to which children interact successfully
with, and are accepted by, their peers (Black &
Hazen, 1990). In one longitudinal study of children’s
conversations with their classmates, responsiveness
to peers’ speech predicted social status a year later
. Children who
stutter sometimes meet with negative reactions from
their peers (Meyers, 1990; Davis, Howell, & Cooke,
2002).
Cooperation. We have seen that the beginnings of
cooperation lie in infants’ and toddlers’ first attempts
to coordinate their activities with those of their peers.
The ability to cooperate with others develops further
in the preschool years. In situations where access to
resources is restricted, some children may behave
cooperatively and others competitively. Cooperation
vs. competition is affected by gender and culture
, and by attachment status
. The choice of competition or
cooperation may depend on the identity of the peers,
with children cooperating more equitably with
friends . Preschool
children gradually learn to balance cooperative
and competitive behaviour whilst dealing with
their peers . However, different
norms may hold for the two sexes. Sociometric
measures indicate that competitive boys, but not
competitive girls, are liked by their same-sex peers
.
Helpfulness, sympathy and kindness. Metaanalyses
have shown that the capacity for prosocial
interactions involving helping, sympathising and
concern for others increases over the years of childhood
. Helping and sharing
are the more common forms of prosocial
behaviour in preschool groups (e.g., Babcock, Hartle,
& Lamme, 1995). Although preschoolers only
rarely intervene actively to alleviate the distress of
their peers, they are very likely to pay close attention
to such distress and, when interviewed, can suggest
constructive ways of comforting or helping a distressed
peer .
Gender differences in prosocial behaviour emerge
during the preschool years, although the extent of
these depends on the mode of assessment (Eisenberg
& Fabes, 1998) and on the social context, in particular
whether children are interacting with peers of
the same or opposite sex (e.g., Burford, Foley, Rollins,
& Rosario, 1996).
Conflict and aggression. Conflict over tangible resources
decreases in frequency over the preschool
years; instead, children begin to quarrel over social
issues, such as the violation of gender-role stereotypes,
or the inclusion of particular children in group
activities . For example, in
a study of 400 preschoolers, two-year-olds were
significantly more likely to engage in conflict over
resources than were three- and four-year-olds; the
older children were more likely to engage in disputes
about forms of play and ideas (Chen, Fein, & Tam,
2001). Thus, the frequency of conflict does not decrease
over the preschool years, but changes occur
in the content of disputes and children’s roles in
resolving their conflicts . Aggressive
strategies tend to bring an interaction to an
abrupt end, whereas conciliatory attempts to resolve
conflict lead to continued interaction following the
dispute (Caplan et al., 1991; Laursen & Hartup,
1989).
Early childhood is a time when gender differences
in conflict and aggression become quite marked.
Girls and boys show similar approaches to conflict in
the toddler years (Caplan et al., 1991; Hay & Ross,
1982; Hay et al., 2000); gender differences in
aggression emerge more clearly between three and
four years of age (Keenan & Shaw, 1997; Loeber &
Hay, 1997). Furthermore, girls and boys begin to
Peer relations in childhood 89
take qualitatively different approaches to conflict.
Girls express more positive emotion than boys do in
the course of conflict (Garner, Robertson, & Smith,
1997). When interviewed, preschool girls are more
likely than their male counterparts to advocate
socially acceptable approaches to conflict with peers
(Hay, Zahn-Waxler, Cummings, & Iannotti, 1992;
but see also Iskandar, Laursen, Finkelstein, &
5Fredrickson, 1995).
Pretend play. A striking feature of peer relations in
the early childhood years is the extent to which
interactions between young peers reflect the life of
the mind, and indeed a degree of intersubjectivity
between children’s minds. Preschoolers spend considerable
periods of their time in imaginative pretence,
which is an important force in the
consolidation of early friendships 
and the persistence of those friendships into later
childhood .
The ability to pretend that imaginary things are
real emerges in a rudimentary fashion in the second
year of life (e.g., Howes & Farver, 1987; Musatti &
Mayer, 1987), and increases in complexity thereafter
, partly as a function
of language development .
Pretend play is seen across cultures (e.g., Farver,
Kim, & Lee, 1995), although themes may vary across
cultural settings. Socialisation practices in different
cultural groups appear to affect the frequency and
content but not the complexity of pretend play
.
Both girls and boys show pretend play, though
again the topics and themes of the pretend episodes
may differ . Pretend play is found to be
less complex under conditions of socioeconomic
disadvantage (Doyle, Ceschin, Tessier, & Doehring,
1991) and less adequate child care settings (Howes &
Matheson, 1992). Because pretend play fosters
friendships, factors that disrupt it may generally
interfere with harmonious peer relations.
Group relations in the preschool years
The major transition that takes place in the preschool
years concerns the ability to relate to peers in
groups, as opposed to one-to-one relationships.
These groups may take the form of informal, often
unsupervised, mixed-age play groups in villages and
neighbourhoods in many cultures, or more formal,
age-graded organisations in day nurseries and preschool
classrooms. When young children begin to
spend time in groups, some children interact preferentially
with others, and so groups of children
become structured in particular ways.
Interaction beyond the dyad. Infants’ interactions
with peers are usually dyadic, and it is not completely
clear when in development children become
able to interact with more than one person at a time;
the first documentation of triadic interaction comes
from studies of family groups (e.g., Hay, Vespo, &
Zahn-Waxler, 1998; Ross et al., 1996). When twoyear-
olds are tested in groups of three, about a fifth
of the interaction is actively triadic .
However, as young children spend more time in
nursery schools, day-care centres and organised
playgroups, they begin to engage in more formal
group activity. In these groups of young peers, social
structures soon emerge. The following patterns can
be seen.
Friendships. The early preferences for particular
peers discerned as early as the second year of life
 flower into
reciprocated friendships in the preschool years.
Although it was once thought that early friendships
reduce to fleeting interactions around common toys,
more recent research has confirmed the complexity
and enduring quality of early friendships (e.g.,
Gottman, 1983), some being maintained from infancy
through early childhood (Howes & Phillipsen,
1992). Preschool children’s cognitive understanding
of friendship is attested to by the fact that they make
different judgements about other children’s transgressions,
depending on whether or not they are
friends . Thus any group
of preschool children becomes structured by the
various friendships embedded within it.
Gender segregation. Initially young children form
friendships with same- and opposite-sex peers, but
gradually come to prefer to interact with members of
the same sex, a phenomenon referred to as gender
segregation. Maccoby  has gone so far as to
describe girls and boys as living in two separate
worlds through most of childhood, which she considers
a critical influence on the gender differences
that characterise adult life. The phenomenon is seen
across cultures (e.g., Hold-Cavell, Attili, & Schleidt,
1986). Increasing gender segregation of preschool
children’s groups impacts on their friendships: girls’
early friendships tend to be more stable than those of
boys .
Gender segregation may derive from the differential
responding to same- and opposite-sex peers
that begins to be evident in the preschool years. For
example, two- and three-year-old girls are more
likely to share with other girls than with boys, particularly
in response to peer requests; in observations
of toddlers with familiar peers, girls never gave
boys what they asked for . Conciliatory
gestures to resolve conflict are more likely to
be directed to same-sex peers (Sackin & Thelen,
1984). Differences between girls and boys in the use
of negotiation as opposed to coercive means to
resolve disputes are seen more clearly when interacting
with same-sex peers .
Gender segregation may also derive from preferences
for different types of activities, and from girls’
90 Dale F. Hay, Alexandra Payne, and Andrea Chadwick
preferences for dyadic as opposed to group interaction
.
Dominance hierarchies. Research by human ethnologists
and sociobiologists has called attention to
the phenomenon of dominance in children’s groups
. The notion of dominance
implies that, when children are engaging in
conflict with other group members, some are more
likely than others to yield to the peer. Even amongst
toddlers, the tendency to initiate conflict is a stable
characteristic of individuals, but the tendency to
yield to the peer depends very much on the identity
of the peer . Transitive dominance
structures within young children’s groups are seen
as early as the toddler years (Bakeman & Brownlee,
1982). Dominant children tend to engage in conflict
most often with other dominant children (Strayer &
Strayer, 1978). However, dominance relations affect
play as well as conflict; rough-and-tumble play,
which is shown more often by boys than by girls, is a
context in which dominance is established and tested
. It should be noted,
however, that dominance hierarchies are apparent
for girls as well as boys (Sebanc et al., 2003; Strayer
& Strayer, 1976). The influence of dominant children
over their peers is attested to by the fact that dominant
children find it easier to deceive their peers,
often smiling while telling lies in a manner
reminiscent of some successful adult politicians
.
Peer acceptance and rejection. The foregoing phenomena
serve to structure preschool children’s
groups, and all operate to determine the place of
individual children in the group. Some children are
accepted by most of their peers, whereas others are
ignored or actively rejected by peers. Because peer
acceptance is an important issue with respect to the
child’s risk for disorder and, conversely, because
children with disorders may be rejected by their
peers, considerable attention has been paid to the
determinants of peer acceptance in the preschool
years. A variety of age-appropriate methods have
been developed to measure sociometric preferences
and dislikes (e.g., Asher, Singleton, Tinsley, &
2Hymel, 1979; Musun-Miller, 1990).
It is important to note once again that peer relationships
take place within children’s broader social
networks, and so peer relations are affected by children’s
relationships with parents (e.g., Kerns &
Barth, 1995; Kochanska, 1992; Moss, Goesselin,
Parent, Rousseau, & Dumont, 1997), siblings (e.g.,
Herrera & Dunn, 1997), and teachers (Howes,
Matheson, & Hamilton, 1994). Marital conflict between
parents is sometimes reflected in children’s
relationships with peers (e.g., Gottman & Katz,
1989). Mothers’ own support networks influence
their children’s acceptance by peers (Bost, 1995;
Melson, Ladd, & Hsu, 1993). Perhaps because of
access to wide networks, mothers who take the
initiative in arranging children’s contacts with peers
have children who themselves initiate such contacts
and are accepted by their peers .
However, despite mothers’ efforts, children who display
particular styles of interaction may fail to gain
acceptance by their peers. Of particular importance
is the relative frequency of positive and negative
interactions with peers.
Individual differences that affect peer acceptance
Prosocial behaviour. Stable individual differences
in prosocial behaviour emerge in the preschool
years; long-term stability from early childhood to
adolescence has been reported for spontaneous
sharing  and helpfulness
.
Furthermore, cooperation in early childhood predicts
low rates of externalising problems in early
adolescence . Prosocial behaviour
is a key factor in gaining acceptance with
peers; preschool children report that they like their
prosocial classmates (Denham et al., 1990; Ladd,
Price, & Hart, 1988). Sometimes it is the absence of
prosocial behaviour in kindergarten, not the presence
of aggression, that best predicts which children
will be rejected a year later (Vitaro, Gagnon, &
Tremblay, 1990).
Aggressiveness. The individual differences in
aggressiveness that emerge in toddlerhood (e.g.,
Cummings et al., 1989; Hay et al., 2000; Rubin
et al., 1998) consolidate during the preschool years.
Although for most children aggression occurs more
frequently in early than in later childhood (e.g.,
Broidy et al., 2003), even then it is not a majority
phenomenon. In a normative sample of children
between 3 and 5 years of age, in which a variety of
different antisocial acts were recorded, approximately
40% of the children exhibited at least one
antisocial act each day; however, only 10% showed
antisocial behaviour at very high rates (Willoughby,
Kupersmidt, & Bryant, 2001). These early individual
differences tend to persist. Stability in aggression
and other externalising problems is evident from
three years of age on (Loeber & Hay 1997; Lahey,
Waldman, & McBurnett, 1999). Indeed, early
aggression is part of the profile of behaviours and
deficits that characterise life-course persistent antisocial
behaviour .
When interviewed, young children condemn
aggression that is hostile ,
and not used in self-defence (Ferguson &
Rule, 1988; Hay, Zahn-Waxler, Cummings, & Iannotti,
1992). Given these views, it is not surprising
that highly aggressive children are not well liked by
their peers. This holds true not only for overt, physical
aggression but the sort of ‘relational aggression’
that is shown more often by girls than by boys; this
Peer relations in childhood 91
sort of behaviour similarly leads to peer rejection
. Furthermore, peer
rejection may be underpinned by beliefs about the
stability of aggressive behaviour in particular peers.
Preschool children who believe in the stability of
antisocial behaviour over time are less likely to
exhibit prosocial behaviour and are more accepting
of aggressive behaviour during peer interactions
. This implies that, even
before children begin primary school, they already
hold general belief patterns that they use to interpret
peer relationships and respond in a differential way
to aggressive and non-aggressive peers.
Shyness. Some children seem to find it difficult to
engage with their peers to any great extent. Just as
there is stability in aggressive behaviours from precursors
in infancy, so general behavioural inhibition
in infancy predicts shyness with peers in the preschool
years . Moreover, there is
continuity from shyness across the childhood years,
with many features similar to shyness amongst
young adults . Individual differences
in shyness have been linked to insecure
attachment relationships in infancy, although that
may depend on the infant’s temperament (Rubin
et al., 2002). However, shyness has also been found
to be associated with mothers’ own social phobias
, suggesting a possible biological
transmission of social anxiety from one generation
to the next. There has been considerable
interest in the biological bases of shyness. Several
reports suggest that shyness is associated with blue
eye colour in males (e.g., Coplan, Coleman, & Rubin,
1998) and with neuroendocrine functioning (e.g.,
Dettling, Gunnar, & Donzella, 1999).
In evaluating the effects of shyness on peer relations,
it is important to take into account the child’s
sex , and also the
degree of heterogeneity in the category of shy children
. In a review of the literature
on solitary play, Katz and Buchholz  focused
on the nature of solitary play in a preschool setting.
Of those children who played alone more than was
typical, four groups emerged: shy, non-shy, isolated
and depressed children. Only the children in the
latter two groups present clear concerns during the
preschool years. It appears that children in these
groups already show signs of psychopathology that
set them apart from other shy and non-shy children.
Underlying processes
In examining the individual differences in preschool
children’s relations with peers, and the consequences
of those differences for peer acceptance and
rejection, it is again important to attempt to identify
the underlying processes that contribute to successful
peer interaction. The following processes
seem particularly important for peer relations in the
preschool years and beyond .
Emotionality and emotion regulation. Children’s
abilities to display and regulate emotions appropriately
are linked to the quality of their friendships
with their peers .
Effective regulation strategies are positively correlated
with ratings of social competence.
It is important to examine the joint contribution of
emotionality and emotion regulation, rather than the
independent contributions these constructs make to
children’s competence with peers (Fabes et al.,
1999). For example, both the experience of intense
anger, as well as the possession of strategies for
dealing with anger, affect peer relations in early
childhood. Inappropriate strategies for managing
anger, such as aggression, or venting of anger, are
linked to higher rates of general emotionality, which
in turn is associated with lower social status
(Eisenberg, Fabes, Nyman, Bernzweig, & Pinuelas,
1994).
Skill at regulating emotions can help children deal
with their own anger. For example, observations of
4-year-olds’ free play with peers were recorded every
3 months during the spring semester of the school
year . The findings indicated that
children’s experience of negative emotions was negatively
correlated with social competence. However,
the child’s ability to regulate emotion moderated that
relationship; the higher the level of emotion regulation,
the weaker the association between negative
emotional responding and social competence.
The experience of negative emotions, and problems
in regulating those feelings, have long-term
consequences for peer relations. In a longitudinal
Negative
Emotion and
Problems in
Regulating
Emotion
Problems in
Social
Understanding
Problems in
Executive
Function
Shynes s
Aggressiveness
Lack of Prosocial Skills
Problems in
Gaini ng
Acceptance by
Peers
Figure 2 In childhood, problems in emotion regulation,
social understanding and executive function are proposed
to underlie individual differences in shyness,
aggression and prosocial behaviour, which in turn
influence the extent to which preschoolers are accepted
or rejected by their peers
92 Dale F. Hay, Alexandra Payne, and Andrea Chadwick
study, , emotionality and selfregulation
at age 4 predicted social functioning up to
4 years later. High levels of negative emotionality and
low levels of regulatory abilities were linked to
problem behaviours; these associations were stable
over time.
Problems in regulating emotion that disrupt relations
with preschool peers may persist into later
childhood, and interfere with competent, prosocial
behaviour. For example, in a sub-sample of children
taking part in the NICHD Study of Early Child Care
and Youth Development , negative
emotionality and emotion regulation significantly
interacted at 7 to10 years of age to predict the child’s
social competence at age 10. Those children who had
high levels of negative emotionality were more prosocial
if they also showed a high degree of emotion
regulation. These findings suggest that one of the
major developmental tasks of childhood is to learn to
cope with one’s own negative emotions; the peer
setting may be an arena in which such coping skills
are honed.
Social understanding. Much research has examined
the contribution of skill deficits and biases in
theory of mind and social information-processing to
peer relations. These processes begin to become
important in the early childhood years, when children
achieve an understanding of other people’s
desires and beliefs, and when they become better
able to generate solutions to interpersonal problems.
For example, preschool children’s degree of social
understanding affects their competence at dyadic
interaction with peers; the peer partner’s degree of
social understanding is also important (McElwain &
Volling, 2002).
Social understanding may play an important role
in determining which children become rejected.
Conversely, peer rejection may interfere with the
development of social understanding. For example,
in the sociocultural view of development of theory of
mind, theory of mind skills are thought to develop
through social interactions with peers; the aggressive
exchanges and lack of positivity that mark peerrejected
children’s social interactions may thus
deprive them of opportunities to develop theory of
mind skills through social interactions (Badenes,
Estevan, & Bacete, 2000).
Links between theory of mind and social competence
have indeed been found (e.g., Slaughter, Dennis,
& Pritchard, 2002). In particular, understanding
of deception and white lies is associated with positive
status within the peer group (Badenes et al., 2000;
Peterson & Siegal, 2002). Theory of mind skills were
greater in those children who had greater verbal
skills, a mutual friendship, and were considered to
be popular by the peer .
However, children who are rejected by their peers are
not necessarily deficient in social understanding:
Performance in theory of mind tasks did not differ in
a comparison of peer-rejected children with popular
and average children .
Problems in social understanding may take the
form of biases as well as deficits. One aspect of theory
of mind is the understanding of another person’s
intentions; misunderstanding of another’s intent has
been linked to increasingly serious peer problems.
Misattribution of peers’ intentions is associated with
reactive aggression, involving angry retaliation in
response to perceived provocation or frustration
. Reactive aggression is negatively
evaluated by peers, and correlated with
victimisation .
Whilst aggression has been linked to peer acceptance,
not all aggressive children are rejected by the
peer group; social cognitive biases appear to play a
role in determining which children are rejected
. American
boys aged 9 to11 years from low-income areas, and
representative of diverse ethnic backgrounds,
attended a summer camp for a period of two weeks.
Children who made hostile attributions about peers’
intentions were more prone to reactive aggressive
displays, which in turn predicted peer rejection.
A subsequent study of somewhat younger children
replicated and extended these findings (Yoon,
Hughes, Cavell, & Thompson, 2000). In that study,
aggressive-rejected children found it difficult to
generate appropriate responses to social information.
Their aggressive responses led to further
rejection by the peer group. Thus, not only the misunderstanding
of other children’s intentions, but
also an inability to generate alternative means of
solving social problems, leads to difficulties with
peers.
Executive function. Deficits in social understanding
may interact with broader patterns of cognitive
function to pose difficulties in relating to peers. In a
sample of British 4-year-olds, children who were
characterised as ‘hard to manage’ showed deficits in
both theory of mind and executive function skills
. The children were
filmed whilst engaged in dyadic play with a friend
. The ‘hardto-
manage’ children were significantly more antisocial
than other children, but deficits in theory of
mind were not associated with antisocial behaviour.
Rather, a significant and negative association
between executive functioning and antisocial behaviour
was found for both ‘hard-to-manage’ and
comparison children. However, when the same children
were filmed in dyadic competitive situations at
ages 5 and 7 years ,
the combined effects of theory of mind and executive
function deficits at age 4 predicted antisocial behaviour
in peer relations at age 5 but not age 7 years.
The importance of one dimension of executive
function, inhibitory control, was further attested to
in a study of links between self-regulation at age
Peer relations in childhood 93
3 years and peer relations at age 4½ years in the
nationally representative US sample drawn for the
NICHD study of day care . Children
with weak inhibitory control were involved in
more negative exchanges with peers than children
who showed good inhibitory control.
Thus, in addition to specific deficiencies in the
form of a reduced capacity to understand mental
states in others, cognitive impairments in the form of
reduced inhibitory control are also implicated in the
development of problems in peer relations. It should
be noted, however, that inhibitory control and theory
of mind skills are themselves related; indeed, executive
function abilities may contribute to the young
child’s growing awareness of other people’s mental
states .
The foregoing evidence concerning the problems
faced by insensitive, aggressive and ‘hard-to-manage’
children draws attention to problematic relations
with peers likely to be experienced by young
children with serious disorder. In particular, highly
dysregulated preschoolers – those already diagnosed
with Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder and
Oppositional-Defiant Disorder – might be expected to
have particular problems dealing with their peers.
Conversely, it may be in response to the challenge of
life in peer groups that these disorders become
acknowledged and diagnosed.
The emergence of entrenched problems
in relating to peers
In general, friendships flower and group relations
become increasingly complex throughout the childhood
years . Nevertheless, peer
relations go very badly wrong for some children.
Some children do not develop satisfactory friendships,
and feel very lonely. Others may be bullied,
bully others, or both. Both of these phenomena are
particularly relevant when considering the contribution
of peer relations to risk for disorder.
Loneliness and solitude
The subjective experience of loneliness. An
important distinction must be made between playing
alone and the subjective experience of loneliness
. Furthermore, the phenomenology
of loneliness is itself multidimensional.
Goossens and Beyers  compared six self-rating
measures of childhood loneliness. The scales
measured four different but interrelated latent constructs:
peer-related loneliness, family-related loneliness,
negative attitudes towards being alone and
positive attitudes towards being alone. These different
sorts of feelings about being alone emerge over
the course of childhood.
The correspondence between solitude and loneliness
seems most marked in the middle childhood
years. Toddlers and preschoolers spend a great deal
of time engrossed in constructive solitary play. In
middle childhood, however, a tendency to play on
one’s own is linked to the phenomenology of loneliness
(Cassidy & Asher, 1992; Fordham & Stevenson-
Hinde, 1999) and to social isolation and depressive
symptoms . The significance
of solitude then changes again between late childhood
and early adolescence: For adolescents, solitude
has a positive effect on emotional state, with
those who spend an intermediate amount of their
time alone being better adjusted than those who
spent little or a great deal of time alone (Larson,
1997).
Loneliness and competence with peers. In the
childhood years, loneliness is moderately correlated
with lower levels of peer competence (Asher, Hymel,
& Renshaw, 1984; Asher, Parkhurst, Hymel, & Williams,
1990; Cassidy & Asher, 1992), although these
effects appear to be mediated by social conditions
and emotional competence. Lonely children are
rejected and victimised by their peers, becoming
more rejected over time (Boivin, Hymel, & Burkowski,
1995). However, it is important to distinguish
dispositional ‘anxious solitude’ from solitude due to
peer exclusion . In longitudinal
analyses, the most severe depressive trajectories
occurred when anxious solitary children
also experienced high levels of peer exclusion.
Anxious solitude predicted significantly elevated
levels of peer exclusion at school entry or soon after.
Those anxious solitary children who experienced
early peer exclusion were at greater risk for depressive
symptoms over the course of middle childhood.
Conversely, anxious solitary children who did not
experience significant peer exclusion displayed
decreased levels of anxious solitude over time.
Family factors. Although solitude and subjective
loneliness may derive from peer exclusion, there are
also important links with parent–child relationships.
Children who reported the most loneliness in early
childhood were those who had been previously
classified during infancy as having insecure–ambivalent
attachment relationships (Berlin, Cassidy, &
Belsky, 1995). Intergenerational continuities in the
experience of loneliness have also been identified.
Positive associations have been found between the
loneliness experienced by parents and their children
at the time of school entry (Henwood & Solano,
1994), and during the university years (Lobdell &
Perlman, 1986); family conflict heightens feelings of
loneliness . Loneliness is also related to
the way in which parents socialise their children to
resolve difficulties that arise during interactions with
their peers; a controlling interaction style shown by
mothers and fathers was positively related to children’s
loneliness scores and depressive symptoms
. In that study,
94 Dale F. Hay, Alexandra Payne, and Andrea Chadwick
mothers’  warmth was related to
lower levels of reported loneliness in children. In
addition, parents’ controlling interaction style predicted
negative ratings by peers and teachers, which
may in turn have influenced peers’ decisions to exclude
a child, thus compounding the level of loneliness
experienced by the child.
Bully–victim relationships
The incidence of bullying. Any attempt to determine
how many children experience bullying depends on
the use of definitions that apply across developmental
epochs and, if possible, across cultural settings.
What exactly does it mean to bully others? A
large-scale international study of school bullying
attempted to address the problem of differing cultural
definitions of the term bullying, whilst also
focusing on age and gender differences (Smith,
Cowie, Olafsson, & Liefooghe, 2002). Cartoons were
used to investigate the meanings given to various
terms, covering a range of social situations between
peers. Whilst 8-year-olds were able to discriminate
between non-aggressive and aggressive social situations,
14-year-olds were able to discriminate
amongst fighting, physical bullying, verbal bullying
and social exclusion.
Overall, there were no gender differences in the
understanding of social situations, confirming earlier
research on the definition of bullying (Smith &
Levan, 1995). The study demonstrated that there are
nuances within each language with regard to the
terms for bullying that children use in each culture,
which must be carefully considered for future international
comparisons.
Increasing attention has been paid to the fact
that some victims of aggression are themselves
aggressive, and so distinctions are made between
‘passive victims’ and ‘bully/victims’. In assessments
of primary-school-aged boys (Schwartz, Dodge, Pettit,
& Bates, 1997), some boys were classified as
aggressive victims , others as passive victims
, and still others as non-victimised aggressors
. Thus over a third of the boys were actively
involved in bully–victim relationships.
Bully–victim relationships may be transient. For
example, in a small-scale observational study of
classroom bullying, 60 bullying episodes were
recorded in 28 hours of observations; on average,
bullying occurred twice an hour, and was transient
. Although only a minority of
children are classified as bullies, other peers do
participate in interactions that involve bullying. In
85% of the bullying episodes, other peers were
involved in some capacity, from active participation
to passive onlooker.
Developmental trends. Bully–victim relationships
begin to emerge in the preschool years. For example,
a social network analysis of 4- to 5-year-old children
showed that a ‘combined central victim/aggressor
model’ best described the pattern for both physical
and general aggression (Vermande, van den Oord,
Goudena, & Rispens, 2000). Aggressive relationships
were transient, with only a minority of children
victims and aggressors. Most children involved in
aggressive relationships were dissimilar with respect
to the level of aggression displayed, with one child
the aggressor and the other the victim; however,
some reciprocal aggressive relationships did occur.
Does the rate of bullying change with age? An age
decline in the frequency of children being bullied at
school has been reported in many empirical studies
(for a recent review see Smith, Madsen, & Moody,
1999). However, many studies rely heavily on selfreport
data, with only a small number considering
other methods. Experiences of victimisation are
subjective. Indeed, Perry, Kusel, and Perry 
4and later Graham and Juvonen  confirmed
that there is a subset of children who report being
victims of bullying but are not recognised as victims
by their peers. Another subset does not report any
victimisation, but peers recognised these children as
victims of bullying. Similarly, Ladd and Ladd 
state that as many as 77% of school children report
that they have experienced victimisation, yet only
14% report that this affected them negatively.
Clearly, the subjective nature of children’s perception
of bullying and victimisation and an over-reliance
on self-report methods may have caused some
disparity in the literature.
Several possible explanations for a decline in bullying
have been offered . Younger
children may report higher rates of victimisation
because they have not yet acquired social and
assertiveness skills to combat bullying incidents and
discourage further incidents. Furthermore, younger
children are in a more vulnerable position; there are
many older children at school who are bigger and are
in a position to bully them. The higher rates of
reported bullying amongst the younger children can
also be explained by differences in understanding of
the definition of bullying .
These age differences in children’s understanding of
bullying make it difficult to draw firm conclusions
about developmental trends.
If there is a true decline in victimisation as children
grow older, this should also be confirmed by
peers and teachers. However, in a study of 48 school
classes, a decrease in self-reported victimisation was
found between 9 and12 years of age, but this was not
6corroborated by peers or teachers .
The children were classified into one of four groups:
self-identified victims, peer-identified victims, selfand
peer-identified victims and non-victims. There
was a significant decrease in victimisation as a
function of age for self-identified victims, whilst the
number of children whose reports of being bullied
were confirmed by their peers remained steady
through the age range.
Peer relations in childhood 95
Longitudinal observations of a US sample showed
a curvilinear trend, with bullying and aggression
increasing with the transition to middle school and
declining thereafter . Overall,
boys were victimised more than girls, with boys
targeting boys more than they targeted girls, and
girls targeting girls more than they targeted boys.
Gender differences in patterns of bullying and victimisation
have been noted in many different samples
(e.g., Bjorkqvist, Lagerspetz, & Kaukiainen, 1992;
Bukowski, Sippola, & Newcomb, 2000; Olweus &
3Endresen, 1998).
Family factors. Early family experiences predict
which boys later emerge as bullies, victims and victimised
aggressors . In a longitudinal
study, mothers of 5-year-old boys were
interviewed and the home environment assessed.
Five years later, those children who had experienced
more punitive, hostile and abusive family treatment
during their preschool years were both aggressive
and victimised by others. In contrast, children who
were aggressive but not victimised by their peers had
earlier received greater exposure to adult aggression
and conflict than children who were neither aggressive
nor victimised; however, these aggressive
youngsters who were not victims had not experienced
victimisation by adults. Those victims who
were not aggressive did not differ from children who
were neither victims nor bullies on any dimension of
the home environment.
Underlying processes. We have seen that problems
in emotion regulation and social understanding affect
children’s acceptance by peers in early childhood;
it thus seems likely that deficits in these
domains, which may indeed derive from early family
experiences, also contribute to a child’s emerging
roles as bully, victim, or victimised aggressor. Indeed,
victims of bullying sometimes show problems in
regulating emotion .
However, the relationship between social cognitive
skills and bully-victim relationships is complex.
It might be thought that aggressive children have
deficits in social understanding, and that such problems
in social cognition are associated with bullying
others. However, the assumption that bullies have a
poor understanding of others can be challenged
. Some bullies
possess good social cognition and theory of mind
skills, which equip them well to manipulate others,
often inflicting suffering upon others subtly to avoid
detection. Such social acumen may characterise
many bullies, but social cognitive skills are particularly
likely to be used by ringleader bullies and in
indirect forms of bullying, which are common
amongst girls .
Self-control processes and, in particular, the
ability to regulate one’s attention and activity also
influence bullying and victimisation. Dysregulated
children may be especially vulnerable to bullying
and may also bully others. It is of particular interest
to examine the relationship between bullying and
ADHD. In a study of 1315 middle-school pupils, path
analysis indicated that pupils who had taken medication
for ADHD had low levels of self-control and
were at increased risk for bullying and victimisation
by bullies . For these
pupils, it was not low self-control that increased the
probability of being bullied, but rather other symptoms
related to ADHD, including poor social skills
and frequent, inappropriate behaviour, which peers
found obtrusive. In contrast, lower levels of selfcontrol
were associated with a higher probability of
bullying other pupils.
Physical size has been linked to individual differences
in aggression (Raine, Reynolds, Venables,
Mednick, & Farrington, 1998), and may also affect
bullying; however, this appears to depend on an
interaction with self-control. In the sample just
described , pupils with low
self-control who perceived themselves to be stronger
than their peers were most likely to bully others, but,
for students with high self-control, strength was not
associated with bullying. Low self-control plus
greater height and/or weight increased the likelihood
of bullying others. However, pupils who were
both overweight and had ADHD were the most likely
to be bullied. Thus, physical characteristics may
interact with psychological processes to predict the
quality of peer relationships, in the context of
childhood disorder.
Do peer relationships play a causal role
in the genesis of disorder?
As we have just seen, children with disorders may
experience problems in relating to peers, and problematic
peer relations are associated with greater
levels of emotional and behavioural problems. However,
can we say confidently that peer relations play
a causal role in the genesis of disorder?
Emotional disorders
Evidence concerning the contribution of peer relations
to emotional disorders remains equivocal.
There is retrospective evidence that depressed
women recall having poor peer relationships in
childhood . Furthermore, there
are links between being victimised by peers and
subsequent internalising problems (Goodman,
Stormshak, & Dishion, 2001), and between the
subjective feeling of loneliness and depressive
symptomatology . Nevertheless,
there is also some counterevidence. In
longitudinal observations of the Christchurch, New
Zealand cohort, peer problems in childhood were not
associated with risk for anxiety or depressive
96 Dale F. Hay, Alexandra Payne, and Andrea Chadwick
disorders in young adults (Woodward & Fergusson,
1999). Furthermore, although prosocial children are
usually seen favourably by their peers (e.g., Denham
et al., 1990; Vitaro et al., 1990), some prosocial
children show severe levels of emotional problems
. The question of links between
peer problems and risk for emotional disorder
deserves more intensive scrutiny.
Conduct disorder
The causal role of peer relations has primarily been
investigated with respect to the development of
conduct disorder. We explore this issue in detail, as
this literature illustrates some of the general complexities
encountered when attempting to establish
the precise contribution of peers to psychological
development. Investigators have been keen to
understand whether problems with peers are simply
manifestations of underlying conduct disorder, or
actual contributors to the development of conduct
disorder in their own right. The two phenomena that
have received most attention are peer rejection in
early childhood and associations with deviant peers
in later childhood and adolescence. A chain of events
has been proposed whereby peer rejection in childhood
is followed by associations with deviant peers
in later childhood and adolescence, which in turn
increases the risk of conduct problems and delinquency
(e.g., Cairns & Cairns, 1994; Quinton, Pickles,
Maughan, & Rutter, 1993). However, it could be
argued that, because aggressive children are especially
likely to be rejected by their peers, any
association between peer rejection and later conduct
disorder could be explained by intra-individual
continuities in externalising problems throughout
childhood. It thus becomes important to determine
whether there is evidence for a pathway from early
aggression to peer rejection to affiliation with deviant
peers that aids prediction of risk for conduct disorder,
beyond simple autocorrelations between externalising
problems at early and later ages .
To what extent does the existing evidence support
the different links in this chain of events?
Does aggression lead to peer rejection? As we have
seen, even in early childhood, when the use of
aggression is not uncommon, aggressive children,
and especially those who lack prosocial strategies, are
disliked by their peers (e.g., Denham et al., 1990;
Schwartz, McFayden-Ketchum, Dodge, Pettit, &
Bates, 1999). The relationship between externalising
problems and peer relationships is seen for girls as
well as boys (e.g., Fergusson, Swain-Campbell, &
Horwood, 2002), and for verbal as well as physical
aggression . The phenomenon
is also seen across cultures, having been
demonstrated in a number of longitudinal studies in
Western industrialised nations (e.g., Fergusson et al.,
2002; Schwartz et al., 1999) and in a study of children
in semi-rural India, in which both aggressors and
victims were rejected by their peers (Khatri & Kupersmidt,
2003). Children who have been maltreated
are at special risk to show the levels of aggression that
result in peer rejection .
Children do not have to be aggressive to be
rejected; social withdrawal and victimisation also
lead to peer rejection (Bierman, Smoot, & Aumiller,
1993; Bolger & Patterson, 2001; Khatri & Kupersmidt,
2003). However, within the group of children
who are rejected by their peers, it appears to be
the aggressive children who show a broader array of
conduct problems, which in turn lead to continued
rejection . As we have seen, the
presence of social cognitive problems increases the
likelihood that aggressive children are rejected
.
Whether or not aggressive children are rejected
also appears to depend on the base rates of aggression
within their peer group. Peers may evaluate
aggressive behaviour in light of the social norms of
the peer group; if the behaviour is deemed as fairly
normal for the group then peer rejection will not
occur (Stormshak, Bierman, Bruschi, Dodge, & Coie,
1999). In support of this claim, in a sample of 1895
American 6-year-olds, levels of classroom aggression
were inversely correlated with the extent of negative
effects of aggression on peer acceptance (Stormshak
et al., 1999). This implies that aggressive children
may find friends in contexts where there is a higher
than usual amount of aggression in the peer group,
which in turn suggests that children who are rejected
by their non-aggressive peers may aggregate into
new, increasingly aggressive peer groups. At the
individual level, this process may increase a child’s
level of aggression and other conduct problems.
Does peer rejection lead to further escalation of
aggression? There is accumulating evidence for a
link between rejection by the peer group and consequent
antisocial behaviour (e.g., Miller-Johnson
et al., 2002; Woodward & Fergusson, 1999). For
example, in a sample of 566 American children who
were assessed first at the age of 5 and then annually
until they were 10, peer rejection significantly predicted
externalising behaviours at 10 (Deater-Deckard,
Dodge, Bates, & Pettit, 1998).
Early Aggressio n
Conduct
Disorder
and
Crime
Peer
Rejection
Friendship
With
Aggressive
Peers
Figure 3 Do processes of peer rejection and the
establishment of friendships with deviant peers influence
a child’s risk for conduct disorder, beyond prediction
on the basis of early aggression?
Peer relations in childhood 97
Being rejected by the peer group might directly
increase the likelihood of becoming involved in
antisocial activities, insofar as rejection leads to
hostility and aggression by the child (Dodge et al.,
2003). Rejection by the peer group might be especially
detrimental to children who are already showing
signs of maladaptive behaviour, acting like a stressor
for the already vulnerable child. However, in a sample
of 259 American children, early rejection by the
peer group was associated with antisocial behaviour
four years later, regardless of the extent of antisocial
behaviour evident at the time of peer rejection (Dodge
et al., 2003); the association was especially strong
for reactive aggression. Similarly, children who had
been rejected as 6-year-olds in first grade were likely
to manifest conduct problems four years later, even
when their levels of aggression and symptoms of
ADHD in first grade were taken into account (Miller-
Johnson et al., 2002). In contrast, in a second
sample of 585 children , the
detrimental influence of peer rejection at age 5 was
only apparent in those children who had already
shown aggressive tendencies. Girls and reactiveaggressive
children were most vulnerable to the
detrimental consequences of peer rejection.
The effect of peer rejection on children’s later tendencies
to be aggressive may partially be due to the
fact that some children who are not accepted by their
peers become actively victimised. For example, in
longitudinal observations, children with early behaviour
problems were likely to be rejected by the peer
group, which in turn led to victimisation by the peer
group at a later time, and thus peer rejection did
mediate the association between behaviour problems
at age 5–6 years and victimization by the peer
group at ages 8–9 years .
Some victims become aggressive, especially when
they have also been victimised by the adults in their
lives .
The effect of victimisation on aggression may
depend on the victim’s sex (Egan, Monson, & Perry,
1998). In a sample of American children between 8
and 12 years of age, boys who were victims of peer
aggression did not show an increase in aggressive
behaviour over time, despite having social cognitions
supporting the use of aggression. In fact, those boys
who were victims of peer aggression tended to
evaluate aggressive responses less positively over
time. However, girls who were victims of peer
aggression became more aggressive over time.
Deviant friendships and peer groups. As we have
seen, rejection by non-aggressive peers in early
childhood may play a role in the establishment of
friendships between aggressive children in later
childhood. Peer rejection is predictive of associations
with deviant peers by early adolescence (Dishion,
Patterson, Stoolmiller, & Skinner, 1991). It is therefore
important to examine the quality of peer relations
in groups of aggressive children.
In general, children who are identified as being
rejected or aggressive-rejected have fewer friends
than their non-rejected non-aggressive counterparts
. However, by early adolescence,
aggressive children may be as likely as non-aggressive
children are to belong to a peer group (Hodgetts,
2003). Groups of aggressive children may experience
a level of conflict that exceeds the norm (e.g., Espelage,
Holt, & Henkel, 2003). For example, friendships
between aggressive children have been observed to
be more fraught than those of non-aggressive children
(Capaldi, Dishion, Stoolmiller, & Yoerger,
2001). These authors suggested that the increased
levels of conflict in these friendships lead to further
aggressive episodes, which provides a further
explanation of how aggressive children’s friendships
serve to facilitate aggression.
Nevertheless, peer groups comprised of aggressive
youth establish group norms and provide social
support in the same manner as other peer groups.
For example, in a sample of 684 children aged 11 to
13 years, from diverse ethnic and economic backgrounds,
aggressive/delinquent children’s friendships
were characterised by as much instrumental
and emotional support as those of non-aggressive/
non-delinquent children were .
Despite reporting higher levels of conflict within
friendships, aggressive/delinquent children stated
that they were more satisfied with the friendships
and received a greater level of support from their
friendships than non-aggressive/non-delinquent
children did. This suggests that friendships amongst
aggressive youth constitute an important, emotionally
charged arena for the further socialisation of
aggression and other forms of criminal offending.
In particular, the establishment of social norms
within aggressive peer groups may spur on further
aggression. Group members are likely to influence
each other’s views about the utility and acceptability
of aggressive actions. For example, in a sample of
206 Latino children aged 11 to 12 years, from mainly
low-income areas, aggressive friends provided a
social context within which aggressive thought and
actions were endorsed, leading to increases in
aggressive behaviour over time (Isaacs & Hodges,
2003). Thus, as a function of social cognitive as well
as learning processes, aggressive children tend to
make each other more aggressive over time.
The negative effects aggressive youngsters have on
each other have been illustrated most dramatically
by studies of interventions that unwittingly increased
rather than decreased levels of conduct problems in
their participants. A natural tendency on the part of
researchers and policy-makers is to try to intervene
with aggressive youth efficiently by aggregating
troubled individuals into groups, who then spend
time together in after-school programmes, summer
camps and the like. This exposure to other aggressive
individuals may be a more powerful influence than
the planned intervention designed to deter aggres-
98 Dale F. Hay, Alexandra Payne, and Andrea Chadwick
sion. For example, in the classic Cambridge–Somerville
study, the long-term follow-up showed that the
experimental group, who received an intervention
designed to reduce delinquency, fared more poorly
than the comparison subjects .
Findings in recent studies (Dishion, Bullock, &
Granic, 2002; Hektner, August, & Realmuto, 2000)
similarly attest to the power of iatrogenic effects on
conduct disorder. In contrast, family-based interventions
that reduce the time spent with deviant
peers may reduce risk . For
example, a prevention programme that did not isolate
and aggregate highly aggressive children, but,
rather, occurred relatively early in development and
focused on small groups of both aggressive and prosocial
children, in tandem with a focus on parenting
skills, deflected at-risk children from increasingly
violent trajectories .
Does peer rejection lead to deviant peer groups
and thereby to conduct disorder? Although there is
certainly evidence for a link between peer rejection
and increasingly aggressive behaviour, and for the
emergence of friendships amongst aggressive youth,
which further encourages conduct problems, is there
clear evidence for the full causal pathway from early
aggression to later disorder, mediated by peer rejection
and associations with deviant peers ?
In addressing this question, it is important to take
into account the child’s earlier level of aggression
and other behavioural problems. The evidence is
mixed, and may depend on the population being
studied. In a longitudinal follow-up of British
youngsters who spent time in care, peer rejection
was associated with associations with deviant peers,
and indeed assortative mating with deviant partners
. However, in the follow-ups of
the Christchurch, New Zealand cohort, peer rejection
in middle childhood did not lead to associations with
deviant peers in adolescence, once the level of conduct
problems at age 9 were taken into account
. Furthermore,
in that sample, the association between
peer rejection and problems in adolescence (criminal
offending and substance use) was largely explained
by family risk factors and other characteristics of
the child, such as cognitive ability (Woodward &
Fergusson, 1999). However, peer rejection continued
to predict educational underachievement and unemployment,
even when other risk factors were
taken into account .
In the Christchurch sample, there was indeed an
effect of deviant peers on criminal activity and substance
use, which was evident for girls as well as
boys, and was especially marked if the association
with deviant peers occurred around 14 to 15 years of
age, rather than in young adulthood (Fergusson
et al., 2002). Thus, the pathway to conduct disorder
and substance use observed in that sample seemed
to be one of children with initial levels of conduct
problems beginning to associate with deviant peers
in mid-adolescence, which increased risk. This is, of
course, exactly the sampling frame and procedure
that would be used in group-based intervention
studies designed to reduce aggression (Dishion
et al., 2002).
Peer relations as a protective factor
in development
Having enquired whether peers play a role in the
genesis of disorder, it is important to ask the complementary
question of whether peer relationships
can serve as a protective factor in psychological
development. In very early childhood, peers foster
exploration of the physical and social world (e.g.,
Gunnar, Senior, & Hartup, 1984; Ispa, 1981) and
facilitate cognitive development (e.g., Light & Glachan,
1985). Under conditions of extreme deprivation,
in the absence of caring adults, peers provide a
source of emotional security .
Nonetheless, with respect to the development of
psychopathology, it is clear that we know rather
more about the ill effects of peer rejection than the
positive effects of children’s friendships and membership
in well-functioning peer groups.
One exception to this general trend is a study of
the protective effects of acceptance by the peer group
and the extent of children’s friendships, which controlled
for the children’s level of social skills, which
might influence peer acceptance whilst having a
direct effect on later social adjustment (Criss, Pettit,
Bates, Dodge, & Lapp, 2002). At the time of the first
assessment the sample consisted of 585 American
children aged 3 to 6 years, from middle-class backgrounds.
Social information processing skills were
assessed during home interviews when the children
were 3 years old. Measures of peer acceptance,
friendships and mean levels of peer aggressiveness
were obtained via sociometric interview at different
points in the study, with teachers’ reports of child’s
externalising behaviours obtained at age 7 years.
Peer acceptance and friendships served as protective
factors against the development of externalising
problems, with peer acceptance serving a somewhat
enhanced protective function. Importantly, social
information processing skills were not found to
account for the protective role of peer acceptance
and friendships, and the protective role of peer
acceptance and friendship was not influenced by
whether the friendship was conflictual or not.
Rather, simply having a friend at an early age
seemed to protect a child against the risk of further
aggression and rejection.
In later childhood and adolescence, the protective
features of peer relations must be studied with
attention to the complex social networks that characterise
the world of peers. Recent theoretical
advances in the study of social networks provide new
Peer relations in childhood 99
means of understanding the structure of peer relations
and the place of an individual child vis-a` -vis
various peer groups (e.g., Cairns, Cairns, Neckerman,
Gest, & Garie´py, 1988; Moody, 2001). It is
important to study affiliations amongst well-functioning
youth as well as the networks of deviant
peers. For example, during the secondary school
years teenagers form friendships and peer groups
based on academic achievement and aspirations, as
well as common interests, sport and charitable
activities. The relative levels of psychological problems
within one’s peer group may serve as risk
factors for an individual’s mental health and socioeducational
adjustment. For example, associations
with deviant peers may deprive youngsters of agenormative
experiences that foster educational
achievement and entry into the world of work
. The social
‘homophily’  of childhood and
adolescent peer groups deserves further investigation.
Conclusions
To summarise, in the foregoing review of the literature
on peer relations, we have outlined a developmental
pathway from the initial peer encounters in
infancy to complex peer networks in adolescence and
young adulthood (with some underlying processes
summarised in Figures 1–3). We have argued that
early competence with peers depends on key skills
and self-regulatory abilities ; individual
differences in the level of aggression within peer
relationships, and in shyness, are already present in
the toddler years. Both of these tendencies, which
are affected by executive function, social understanding
and emotional regulation, play an important
role in the consolidation of social skills in
children’s first peer groups, and influence the extent
to which individual children are accepted or rejected
by peers . Peer acceptance or rejection in
turn influences children’s risk for victimisation,
associations with deviant peers and disorder,
although the causal pathways are not completely
known .
It is evident that an individual child’s ability to
engage positively with his or her peers is affected by
that child’s individual skills and temperament, as
well as by factors in the family and greater social
environment at all points in development. When all
of these individual and familial risk factors are taken
into account, the contribution of peers to the child’s
risk for disorder may be attenuated (e.g., Woodward
& Fergusson, 1999); put another way, family interventions
may militate against the negative effects of
deviant peers . Such findings,
however, do not negate the importance of peers for
psychological development. Indeed, our search for a
direct, causal influence of peer relations on disorder
may have missed the point so earnestly debated
by the 4-year-olds quoted at the beginning of this
article. To put it bluntly, peer relations may be both
the chicken and the egg, and it behoves us to exploit
methods for the analysis of longitudinal data to
explore the reciprocal relation between peers and
disorder more fully .
Whether or not problematic peer relations play a
direct causal role in the development of disorder –
and the iatrogenic effects of experimental interventions
suggest that they sometimes do – the world of
peers constitutes a challenging and sometimes
unforgiving environment in which disorder manifests
itself. Young toddlers with developmental disorders
may have particular difficulties adjusting to
the demands of peer groups, and it may be in the
peer setting that the severity of their problems is first
recognised. Children with internalising or externalising
problems may suffer academically as well as
socially, to the extent that difficulties with peers
interfere with adjustment to formal educational settings.
Ultimately, problematic peer relationships and
a growing association with deviant peers hold
important implications for a choice of romantic
partner ; intimate relationships
with deviant peers may encourage early sexual
relationships and parenthood, thereby conveying
added risk for the next generation.
Nonetheless, despite the emerging evidence for the
negative effects of peer relations on children’s
adjustment and risk for disorder, it is also salutary
to remember that, in the analyses of representative
community samples reported here, most children
have friends and ‘good enough’ relationships with
their peers. Although the world of peers can indeed
be cruel at times , it can also
be enormously supportive, constructive and, most of
all, fun. Perhaps it is the fun we have with our peers
that conveys both the greatest risk if – the fun
involves antisocial flirtation with physical and social
dangers – and the greatest positive contribution
peers make to psychological development.
We suggest that it is time for psychologists and
psychiatrists to turn their attention once again to the
serious study of fun. It is worth noting that, in the
index of the most recent Handbook of Child Psychology
, in contrast to editions from
earlier decades, there is a full chapter on peer relations,
with many citations pertaining to problematic
peer relationships . However,
throughout all four volumes, only a handful of references
are made to the main thing that children in
virtually all cultures do with their peers, namely,
play. Play with peers was once a major topic in
developmental psychology, and deserves to be
studied anew. It is our hope that future studies of
peer relationships will focus more extensively on the
positive and protective features of children’s relationships
with their friends and acquaintances,
whilst not forgetting that, for some children,
100 Dale F. Hay, Alexandra Payne, and Andrea Chadwick
difficulty getting along with peers is a harbinger of
very serious psychological problems.