Dear heart
I know this world is a scary place for me and you
And I'm so sorry for everything I put you through
Cause sometimes I can be such a fool
Believing happily ever afters are tried and true, ow!
Some days I really hate the internet for what it's done to my life
Cause I've been living through a screen unintentionally setting myself up for disappointment every time
So many out of my league but they're the drug that I need
And I'm a kid window shopping, building castles in the air
Think I need help, why do I do this to myself?
Cause any day of the week I'm thinking
We ain't gettin' any younger baby
I tied all common sense to a noose
I'm ready to do something reckless with you
And I'm in the mood to catch feelings so
Where are you love?
Tell me, how can I find ya?
Are you lost somewhere in a crowded place
Waiting for me to call your name?
Love, come and save me
I refuse to be lonely
I've crossed all seven seas doing stupid things for you
So don't wake the dream of a hopeless romantic fool
Oh, oh, oh, oh
I'm just a hopeless romantic fool
Oh, oh, oh
Sometimes I get overwhelmed
Most toxic trait is running my emotions through hell
As I swipe right and left, I know this feeling all to well
Cause most of the guys don't want me back, won't text me back and I'll overreact
And it sucks cause I want love so damn bad
Is it clear that I'm a lovesick maniac?
You see, I'm always overthinking
And I fucking hate it
I might be kinda desperate but
I can't really help it
With a phone left for dead I didn't know I was a haunted house to be ghosted again and again
Oh
Where are you love?
Tell me, how can I find ya?
Are you lost somewhere in a crowded place
Waiting for me to call your name?
Ooh love, come and save me
I refuse to be lonely
I've crossed all seven seas doing stupid things for you
Listen
I'm over 25 and ain't got time to play it cool
I'm looking for the Adam to my Steve cause I was born to break the rules
You're kinda sorta my type and something bout you drives me wild
You make me touch myself sometimes, so don't be the guy to let me down
Cause nothing hurts like the words we should just be friends
Especially if you're the one on the receiving end
Love don't do this to me again
Cause nothing hurts like the words we should just be friends, ow!
Nothing hurts ‘less you’re the one with love unrequited
Back on the merry go round again
Where are you love?
Where are you love? There’s a heart that’s waiting for you
Where are you love?
Tell me, how can I find you?
Are you lost somewhere in a crowded place, waiting for me to scream your name?
Love, come and save me
I refuse to be lonely
I’ve crossed all seven seas doing stupid things for you
So don’t wake the dream of a hopeless romantic fool
Oh oh a hopeless romantic fool
Oh oh a hopeless romantic
: “We’re just throwing out our numbers, we’re like that sounds right!”