It's the Moonlight Special
Comin' on TV, yeah, the Moonlight Special
Late night out of sight rock 'n' roll music for you and me
Now here's the host, from the coast
Sounds like a frog doin' the monologue
It's the Sheepdog
Yeah, baby, it's the Sheepdog, Sheepdog, Sheepdog
Crazy, too cool, out of sight, right on, and far out!
Yeah, join my rock here for the next greatest hour in town here on the Moonlight Special
Yeah, dig it, what a show we got for you tonight folks
And here to get things rollin' is the fabulous Mildred Queen and the Dipsticks, yeah
I love you 
Yes, I do 
Really do ;
And I just wanted to take the time to show how much you really mean to me
And I promise to love and be yours forever if you'll only stay with me
Wait a minute ;
How come you sayin' everything that I say?
Now cut that out! 
Stop that! 
Now I know why they call you guys the dips
You're dippy 
Ah 
How about that all you hippie, dudes, and chickies out there!
Mildred Queen and the Dips here on the Moonlight Special!
It's the Moonlight Special, comin' on TV
Yeah, we're comin' on TV
The Moonlight Special for you and me
The is the ol' Sheepdog, Sheepdog
All right, ladies and gentlemen, here to get it on is Agnes Stoopa
Agnes Stoopa and his chickens, yeah
Yeah, flash an old lady now!
Ride the ferry car
Paint the living room carpet
Cut down the cherry tree and say you didn't do it
Yeah, oh, my chickens...
How about that rockers?
Agnes Stoopa and his chickens
And in case you're wondering you're listening and watching the Moonlight Special
And this is the ol' Sheepdog, Sheepdog, Sheepdog
And now friends here to really lay it down for you
Here he is, the king of the piano rockers himself
Here he is, Jerry Joe Henly Jimmy, baby, yeah
Unbelievable!
Watch out, folks, he's gonna play with his teeth now!
Watch out! Hippie! Yeah! The man's a gem! Yeah
It's The Moonlight Special comin' on TV
That was Jerry Joe Henly Jimmy, baby, the king of the rock 'n' roll piano
And that about takes up all of our time
That wraps it up for this week guys and gals
But the ol' Sheepdog will be back next week one more time
For a little more of that Moonlight Special
Until then, just remember