Charron 2.0, giving the streets classics
Someone tell Arsonal I don’t do rematches
You’re the type to bang a bitch and stay behind
I get neck and bolt: Frankenstein
Toss you in the ocean during a crazy tide
Have you sleepin’ with plenty of fish since you date online
What you worth?  Charron’s paid to rhyme
I fill up boxes for checks  like Croatian mimes
Rip out every page inside The Saurus ‘til I break his spine
I'll alter your chin like an Asian bride
​
That’s what mid-tier smells like
I crush opponents
You’re getting sonned up North like summer solstice
You like to gamble? I ain’t one to roll with
Get ethered in the casino like when Hunter Thompson upped his dosage!
Bring a pair of dice to the city, luck is hopeless
Slash, then bucket heads like Guns N’ Roses!
You lost to a Canadian in Don’t Flop: I think London noticed
It’s funny you have a Scarface and got killed by 100 Bulletz
You’re monotone, boring, just retire, buddy
This bitch is dull: Bride of Chucky
The Saurus, I’m synonym inside this country
I’m schooling this fake book: Bible Studies
"I spit my bars as sick as SARS, I’ll ninja star your ass"
Sounds like you’re reading books to a Kindergarten class
Look at this Peter-phile who roams the streets with a knife
Girls treat your dick like a rape whistle: they only blow it when they fear for their life!
You had the best pen game...in the freestyle era!
He scheduled his run
You were bringing in bread, now you’re pecking at crumbs
You picked up some cash from events that you won
I’ll get rid of that stash like Movember was done
We want you to retire: if you don’t get that, you’re dumb
In 2014, you’re an irrelevant bum
If you claim you fathered my style, you neglected your son
You’re the exact person in 10 years I hope I never become!
Check check, can you hear me? You can hear me?
That’s good, 'cause you should know he’s just a big clone
I’m a terrible father to all the bullshit kids that I disowned
Yo, you’re not going to have any fans left by the time I’m done rapping
Cause Corey is as corny as that fight that just happened
Who the fuck is Corey Charron!?
These days, even he ain’t sure
In six months, he went from embracing being a nerd
To gassed up, thinking he can beat Aye Verb
To fake Grape Street Cripping if you peeps ain’t heard
Wait buddy, we used to cut him slack for being a teenager
But you been bitch since the jump-off like a teenage Eurgh
Speaking of which, true story time
Tell me if I’m lying or not
You would blow a giant cock for any type of title shot?
No? Funny shit
Eurgh told KOTD to suck his dick
And you’re battling for Don’t Flop’s International Title, so someone did
So desperate, Charron’s giving everything that he’s got
He thinks he’s earned it for how hard he’s repping King Of The Dot
But a title match ain’t what you get for thinking you God
I’ll put a chain around your neck like Jesse Pinkman to Todd!
Look, you almost like Walter White, too
No matter how you cut it, when you break it down, all your lines blue
The barrel's being spun
You better flee and run
Every one I’m with draw on my account: no depleted funds
It ain’t a season of a TV show on VH1
But y’all about to see Corey bein’ sonned by Peter guns!
I ain’t even done, I’m on one, I’ll crush you in the long run
Your head blew up ever since they almost handed you that Shotgun
I feel sorry for the city that this pussy corresponds from
I feel sorry for your mother: that’s the pussy Corey spawned from
I lead this movement, you just steal my blueprint
But I beat you to it, Corey: we’ve been through this
A true teacher always supersedes his students
So I’m putting you to sleep with some Sweet Chin Music
How could you be this stupid? Making clownish threats
Being yourself is something you used to proudly rep
But now you’re pulling out them Techs?
You went from Malcolm In The Middle to Malcolm X
And that’s something this crowd respects?
You think guns actually sound like Big T’s sound effects!
Yo, he wanna talk about Breaking Bad, so I’ll get rid of ya
But, real talk, I’m not Walter White, but my squad supply to Bolivia
If I got that gat, I’ll pop the pipe and get rid of ya
I’ll fill up your tea like Walter White did to Lydia!
It’s an enigma, I’m your protégé
It really seems impossible
You have more pre-med flips than a Filipino hospital
Before this battle, he made a personal offer
"Let's exchange rebuttals to make our verses be stronger."
I ain’t tryin’ to script it out with this dirt-poor Father
Lets keep this unplanned, like your firstborn daughter!
Put you in the hospital as it beep away
Get tuned up by a doctor: Beats By Dre
Here is something Pete would say:
"I’ll turn this to a sea"
That ain’t gonna fly like Aaliyah plane!
This grease ball from Greece getting beat today
There’s so many holes in your face, you’re sponsored by the PGA
You could be the face of Dot Mobb
You’d be perfect, man!
Your face is so burnt, Ness Lee wants to use it for an insurance scam
I’m a pimp, your two sisters hop on and swallow
Now they fighting over the Don: John John and Hollow
With your girl, I control her with game: just watch, son
P.S.: for your information I get jobs done
Now he needs to be consoled, it don’t end off on
There’s a contest for most ratchet pussy, and his ex box won!
Head shot! What’s for supper?
I’ll rip off Petey’s head like the gasman from Dumb And Dumber
I’m mental, Brian Griffin your squad will I rap
This ain’t Family Guy: when Peter’s dawg dies, he’s not coming back!
The Saurus, you’re washed up with no future
You’re the oldest fucking book since Kama Sutra!
I put that gun to your mouth before I aim and I shoot ya
Have you tasting Clips, like Cortez when he ate out Medusa
Rapping about guns, claiming you spark heat
If you’re packing the Mac in the back of the Ac', you’re putting Greg in his car seat!
But if Ars' puts hands on me again, I won't pull out a switchblade
I’ll just bang your slut daughter and use his Crip flag as my jizz rag
That ain’t an illegal blow, it’s a TKO
Punches hit so hard, the crowd scream, “Sharkeisha, no!”
Battle rap's all you fucking do
Even Whitney in the tub won’t die as washed up as you
Fuck a third round: this is already through
Like a Siamese twin, you got bodied in two!
Here’s how I know that Charron’s true bitch
'Cause if Arsonal touched you again, you won’t do shit!
You’re a fucking horrible rapper
Why’d I write this verse?
You’re the worst thing to happen to battling since the Grind Time title shirt
Boring mismatches and corny Crip tactics
Make Corey’s bitch-ass-ness clearer than 40-inch plasmas
A born-again Christian before he grip ratchets
So it’s an act if you think Corey been savage
You aren’t as fortunate, I'mma share the art of war with him
I’m sharper cause I started before him, like Arkham Origins
A born contortionist
You should have got aborted 'cause I fathered so many of you marks, I could start an orphanage
Wait, y’all don’t think it’s corny, Corey claiming he can Crip Walk?
Another lost boy: Corey Haim came to get his pill popped!
I’ll take a cord and strangle Corey for the greater good of Hip Hop
Sorry, player!  I’m getting Corey tailored for his slipknot!
See, he thought that acting more hard would make him sort of popular
But y’all see, Corey’s softer than JC’s choreographer
If I swung, you’d call for law enforcement, inform an officer, Report, record and document it like a court’s stenographer
This a body, I’m preparing for business
Sonning you like I’ve got characteristics of the parents you lived with
I’m not so sure you want beef
The whole league will be in Glee when you OD like Cory Monteith!
Talk's cheap, you the hometown favorite
But I already own you: no down payment
Co-sign the whole way
You only a Crip when it’s time to roleplay like Keyser Söze
This a cold case
Don’t miss me, spazz with each jab
Watch this kid be bagged, then put six feet past
Any bitch he had must be in rehab
'Cause she hits speed bags like Nick Diaz!
Ya’ll remember when Arcane battled Diz' for the chain, and took it back?
Diz had a fucking meltdown mid-round, and he fucking snapped
Threw a beer can at a female fan, started a shoving match
And Organik still thought that you versus Pat was a worse look than THAT!
Yo, you wanna talk about Nick Diaz? Well, watch the champion swing
No Anderson Silva, but I go out on a limb when I snap in the ring!
I got exposed with Laura, I don’t feel dumb
I’d rather Shotti bang my fake bitch than Uno Lavoz fuck my real one
I get paid to snap like the paparazzi
If your girl's on her period, I’ll put that colon to work like a grammar Nazi
Since Pete’s a pizza face who's actin’ cocky
For the dough, I’ll turn him inside out like a panzerotti
Fuck shooting, I’ll use a gun to stab somebody
Put the piece into you: Mahatma Gandhi!
I’m like MF Doom with the hands of Rocky
I don’t have a dancing hobby
But a mask is on me when I’m catching bodies like the Jabbawockeez!
It’s like my Dad’s on his deathbed, observing all my traits
Like, "Son, turn your life around and stop murdering with Grapes"
Ho-ho!  WRC’s searching for the tapes
You been mid-tier for six years, all that works been put to waste
The fans want you to retire: you’re not worthy of the stage
You named yourself after a book, but never turned the other page
It’s like I pulled the plug on my Dad, the first word I say is "Thanks...
For being such a failure, that the new generation can learn from your mistakes!"
Beep, beep, flatline
But doctors resurrected his life
I’ll kill him again, since he likes doing everything twice!
You’re someone Battle Rap's not gonna miss
If scars prove our past is real, with that face, you’ll always exist!
For the past year, I’ve wanted my father to call this shit quits
I feel like Simba while he watches Mufasa fall from the cliff!
DAMN, homie!
When I was in grade school, you were the MAN, homie!
Now I get paid twice as much as Saurus do
MuchMusic gave me 20 G’s to record some tunes
Mr. Two-Time Everything’s never toured with Whoo
You’re twice my age, and I’ve accomplished two times more than you!
Real talk, this my last battle: too much drama and stress
Now I’m all about making music and cashing in checks
I’m done with King Of The Dot, I wish Organik the best
Psych! Tell that crybaby Dizaster he’s next!
TITLE FUCKING SHOT!
You think Diz is gonna win tomorrow?
I do.  I do, actually
Okay, that's cool
I was gonna say something like, "If you cats ain’t guessed, Pat Stay's next!"
It’s a goddamn shame that we can’t place bets
Cause I’m as positive as your last AIDS test
There’s no way that chain gets 'round your giraffe-shaped neck!
Dope shit!
When you got kicked out the BET Cypher, that was the most depressing shit ever
You went on the news to cry about it, before you settled your temper
You said their racist views prevented you from getting remembered
But ain’t that kind of like the pot calling the kettle the n-word?
I mean, maybe you didn’t get a BET Cypher spot
'Cause they noticed you can’t even get a KOTD title shot!
Maybe they thought you’re a pathetic piece of shit
Who pretends that he’s a Crip
'Cause he’s in desperate need of any free attention he can get
Or maybe they just didn’t think your freestyles was that tight
Or didn’t like how you were claiming to be down with that life
But you would have seen it coming if you think 'bout the past, right?
It ain’t the first time BET reached out to smack white!
They slapped you with the iron palm
You’re not hard if you’re in a cop car for being invited on a ride-along!
You started rapping just to spite your mom
Because you grew up in a household that taught you the difference between white and wrong
Your life is all make-believe! Stop it!
The only flag you should ever rep has a maple leaf on it!
But he thought that he was Cripping...In Ottawa
Where value in property has risen to second in North America’s quality of living
So maybe BET is just waiting ‘til that apology is given
I mean, white rapper, white community
What? Insulting black culture's just following tradition?
Y’all tell me! Who’s the actual racist?
You went on national news and looked at a camera to say shit
About how THEY discriminated
But examine your statements
You’re not a black guy, Charron
It’s time to man up and face it
All you are is a black eye on Black Entertainment!