TITLE SEQUENCE
A reel plays with clips from the previous episode.
CUT TO: INT. BEDROOM, NIGHT
Wanda and Vision are lying in their beds, asleep. A loud thud wakes Wanda up and she gasps.
WANDA: What was that?
She turns a lamp on telepathically, then turns it back off. Another thud prompts her to turn it on a second time, then off again. Vision removes his facemask.
VISION: Wanda?
WANDA: Yes, dear?
VISION: Are you using your powers to turn on the light?
WANDA: Yes, dear.
VISION: Allow me, sweetheart.
He stands up and turns the light on. He walks over to a window and pulls back the curtains to look around.
WANDA: What do you see?
VISION: Only your lovely rose bushes.
WANDA: That’s all? Are you using your night vision, Vision?
VISION: I assure you, my love, I see nothing amiss. You have absolutely no reason to be frightened-
There’s a third loud thud.
VISION: Ah!
He jumps and quickly hides under his covers.
WANDA: You were saying?
VISION: Actually, I did overhear a couple of lads at work remarking on a few unsavory characters settling in the neighborhood. Now, who knows what those ne’er-do-wells might be up to? Robbing houses, vandalizing property.
WANDA: Walking through walls, moving objects without touching them.
VISION: Wanda, darling, you can't be suggesting my colleagues were referring to us.
There’s another thud. Wanda moves their beds together.
VISION: One of us should really determine the source of that sound.
WANDA: Yes. One of us should.
There’s another thud.
WANDA: Oh, this is getting ridiculous. I’m going to take a look.
VISION: Oh, god, darling.
She telepathically swings the curtains open to reveal a branch hitting the panes.
WANDA: Well, I think we handled that well.
VISION: Yes, I must say I’m rather proud of myself. And look how you seized on the opportunity to redecorate.
WANDA: This is better, isn’t it.
VISION: Mm.
Wanda uses her powers to turn the two adjacent beds into one wide bed.
VISION: Wanda, darling?
WANDA: Yes, dear?
VISION: Get the light.
They get under the covers together. Wanda turns off the light.
OPENING THEME
CUT TO: INT. LIVING ROOM, DAY
Vision is in a magician’s getup in the living room.
VISION: Ladies and gentlemen, for my final trick, I bring you: The Cabinet Of Mysteries.
He waves his wand. Nothing happens.
VISION: Yes, darling, that’s your cue.
WANDA: Did you say, “Cabinet Of Mysteries?”
VISION: I said, “The Cabinet Of Mysteries!”
He waves his wand again. This time, Wanda wheels out a large cabinet.
WANDA: Oh, that’s my cue. Ooh!
VISION: Holy Toledo! Darling, do all the other acts in the talent show have such elaborate props?
WANDA: Are you kidding? Fred and Linda are building a moat and a fully-functioning portcullis and no one even knows why. Let’s keep going.
VISION: Oh, yes, yes. Where was I? Um… Watch closely as I, Illusion, Master of Enigma, make my captivating assistant Glamour disappear!
They open the cabinet. Wanda steps in.
WANDA: You really are very dashing.
VISION: Mm, thank you darling. Fear not, Glamour, for I, Illusion, vow to bring you back exactly as you are.
WANDA: Ooh!
He closes the cabinet.
VISION: Abracadabra!
He waves his wand at the cabinet, and then opens it again, revealing Wanda is gone.
VISION: Ta-ta!
After a moment, Wanda re-emerges from a hidden wall in the cabinet and claps.
VISION: Yes, um, Wanda, you’re not at all worried that the audience might just see through this little charade?
WANDA: Well, that’s the whole point! In a real magic act, everything is fake.
She closes the cabinet. He removes his getup.
WANDA: Darling, the talent show fundraiser is the most important event of the season, and it’s our neighborly duty to participate. Plus, it’s our chance to appear as normal as possible while doing so.
VISION: Well, I don’t think that should be a problem.
He gestures at his face.
WANDA: This is our home now. I want us to fit in.
VISION: Oh, darling. We do. We shall. And we’re going to knock their socks off. Especially with you wearing this.
He picks up a very revealing outfit.
WANDA: Oh, that’s actually the rest of your costume.
VISION: Oh.
Wanda checks her watch.
WANDA: Well, I better get going if I’m gonna make the planning committee meeting.
VISION: That’s me off as well, actually. There’s a gathering of the neighborhood watch at the public library. And after last night’s excitement, I want to make sure this town’s security is up to snuff.
WANDA: That’s a swell idea. You tell those tree branches who’s boss.
They kiss.
VISION: Would you look at us? Wanda and Vision. Westview fitter-inners.
WANDA: I’ll see you at curtain call.
They both walk away. Cut to Wanda in the kitchen later. There’s a strange noise in the background. She fluffs a pillow, and then hears a loud thud. She exits the house and looks around, spotting something in the bushes. She picks it up, and it’s shown to be a mini helicopter, in color. Agnes arriving startles her, and she drops it.
AGNES: Look, it’s the star of the show.
WANDA: Agnes. I’m sorry, what did you say?
AGNES: Oh, I brought my pet rabbit. For your magic act.
WANDA: Yes, of course! Thank you Agnes. We will take good care of him.
Wanda takes Señor Scratchy from her.
AGNES: Señor Scratchy just loves the stage. He played baby Jesus in last year’s Christmas pageant.
WANDA: Oh!
Wanda enters the house.
AGNES: Oh, morning Dennis.
Dennis walks up.
DENNIS: Morning, Agnes.
AGNES: Stick ‘em up.
She points finger guns at him. He raises his hands.
DENNIS: Don’t shoot, I’m just a messenger.
Agnes laughs.
AGNES: Pew, pew!
She watches him walk away. Wanda comes back out.
WANDA: Shall we?
AGNES: Oh, we shall.
The pair walk down the sidewalk. Wanda takes one last look back at her bushes.
AGNES: So, are you ready to meet Queen Cul de Sac and her Merry Homemakers?
WANDA: Agnes, Dottie can’t be as bad as you say.
AGNES: Hmm, well you’ll notice her roses bloom under penalty of death.
Agnes stops walking and turns to Wanda.
AGNES: Wanda, can I give you a bit of friendly advice?
WANDA: Is it about the way I’m dressed?
AGNES: Yes, but it’s too late for that. Dottie is the key to everything in this town. Country club memberships, parties, school admissions.
WANDA: Well, let’s not get ahead of ourselves.
AGNES: You get in with Dottie and it’ll be smooth sailing from here on out. Just mind your Ps and Qs and you’re gonna do just fine.
WANDA: Or maybe I could just be myself? More or less?
Agnes laughs.
AGNES: Oh, Wanda. That’s good.
Nearby, the other women leave Dottie’s house.
DOTTIE: Everybody, hurry up please.
AGNES: Hiya, Dottie! Your roses are divine.
DOTTIE: Well, thank you.
Agnes gives Wanda a look. They both join the procession of women.
CUT TO: EXT. POOL, DAY
The women are all gathered in a tent next to a pool.
WOMAN: The Rotary Club is finishing the stage set-up as we speak.
Dottie puts a single ice cube in her drink. Wanda copies her.
BEVERLY: They’ve given the gazebo a fresh coat of paint and will be installing the final decorations all through the town square.
Dottie stirs her drink slowly. Wanda copies her again.
BEVERLY: And if you recognize the antique footlights, it’s because they’re from my store.
DOTTIE: And the chairs?
BEVERLY: I’m sorry, Dottie, I didn’t ask about the chairs.
DOTTIE: So you better not ask me if you can chair any committees in the future.
Some of the other women giggle. Beverly sits down. Dottie gets up.
DOTTIE: The devil’s in the details, Bev.
Agnes leans over to Wanda.
AGNES: That’s not the only place he is.
DOTTIE: As you all know, the talent show is the sole fundraiser for Westview Elementary.
Agnes hands a flask to Beverly.
AGNES: This might help.
DOTTIE: In the eight years since I founded our little club, this event has gotten bigger and better every season.
Geraldine passes a tray of food to Wanda.
GERALDINE: Say, those pants are peachy keen!
WANDA: Do you really think so? The other ladies are in skirts, I was worried.
DOTTIE: We only have a few hours until show time, so a little less cross chatter and a little more focus.
WANDA: Okay.
DOTTIE: Those little boys and girls are counting on us. All of this is for the children.
The other women speak in unison.
WOMEN: For the children.
WANDA: For the children.
Wanda gets some stares from some of the other women.
DOTTIE: So, I want you all to give yourselves a big hand.
Wanda begins clapping.
DOTTIE: At the appropriate time, of course. But first, let’s review event etiquette. Dress code is upscale garden party
Geraldine turns to Wanda.
GERALDINE: The only reason I didn’t clap is because I’m afraid to move. I actually don’t know what I’m doing here.
WANDA: I’m starting to feel that way myself. I’m Wanda.
GERALDINE: I’m, uh… Geraldine.
WANDA: Hi.
DOTTIE: And I’m irritated. Tickets for tonight are completely sold out. Now you can clap.
The women all clap.
DOTTIE: And stop.
They all stop.
AGNES: How is anybody doing this sober?
CUT TO: INT. PUBLIC LIBRARY, DAY
Cut to an establishing shot. We see Vision enter the library. Inside, he comes upon a group of men sitting around a table.
VISION: Pardon me, is this the neighborhood watch meeting?
The men stop their conversation and look up at Vision.
NORM: Oh, hiya, Vision. Didn’t expect to see you here. This is sort of a members only type deal.
VISION: Ah, certainly. Right, well. I’ll just stay here and be as quiet as a church mouse til you open up the floor for new business.
HERB: Well, in truth, we were just getting to new business.
VISION: Oh, splendid! Could you tell me how often you rotate security patrols? Do you interface directly with local law enforcement? What are your protocols for threats such as burglary, graffiti, and reckless driving?
NORM: No, Vision-
VISION: I know these are indeed grave matters.
NORM: New business actually means another round of Danish.
Jones pulls out a box.
JONES: Raspberry or cheese-filled?
VISION: Oh, neither for me, thank you. I don’t eat food.
The other men give him strange looks.
VISION: What I mean to say is that I don’t eat food in between meals but at mealtimes. I’m a regular eating machine.
HERB: Hey, fellas, Vision here has got a point. Now, listen up. I got some top secret intelligence for you.
VISION: Oh, excellent.
HERB: Now, you know how Johnson’s been bragging about that treehouse he built for his kids?
JONES: Yeah?
HERB: It’s a prefab job.
The other men scoff.
JONES: That blockhead can’t even swing a hammer.
NORM: I can do you one better. You know those bowling trophies Arthur’s always polishing? He bought ‘em all at a yard sale in Hackensack.
HERB: I knew it. I’ve never once seen him down at the lanes.
VISION: I, too, have some top secret gossip to share. Norm here’s a communist.
The men stare at each other for a moment before bursting out in laughter.
JONES: Vision, you’re a real cut-up.
NORM: You know, I always thought you were kind of a square.
VISION: Me? No, I’m as round as they come.
HERB: Hey, care for a stick of Big Red?
Herb holds out a pack of gum. Vision takes one.
VISION: Ooh!
NORM: Well, hold on there a second. Didn’t you hear the man? He doesn’t eat food.
JONES: Is gum food?
VISION: Well, my understanding is that it’s purely for mastication.
HERB: Oh, no, I don’t do that.
VISION: Ah, well, when in Westview. Cheers!
Vision awkwardly begins to chew the gum.
NORM: Who knew you were such a funny guy?
HERB: And to think you came here all hot and bothered about protocols and nonsense. We actually thought you were serious!
Herb pats Vision on the back, causing him to swallow the gum. An animation plays of the gum getting jammed up in Vision’s works.
HERB: He’s funny! Alright, so, back to this barbeque.
CUT TO: EXT. POOL, DAY
Back at the women’s meeting, a song plays on the radio. Wanda helps clean up while Dottie sits nearby.
DOTTIE: And that is why you never do a seating chart on an empty stomach.
WANDA: Gollie, you’re a whiz at all this committee stuff, Dottie. Thank you for choosing me to help you clean up today. I feel so lucky.
DOTTIE: You are.
Wanda makes a face while her back is turned. After a moment, she turns back around.
WANDA: I can’t help but wonder if you and I haven’t gotten off on the wrong foot, Dottie. And I would like to correct that if I can.
DOTTIE: And how would you do that?
Wanda gives a nervous laugh and says nothing. Dottie gets up.
DOTTIE: I’ve heard things about you. You and your husband.
WANDA: Well, I don’t know what you’ve been told, but I assure you I don’t mean anyone any harm.
DOTTIE: I don’t believe you.
The radio begins to crackle. A voice comes through.
MAN: Wanda. Wanda, can you read me, over? Wanda?
DOTTIE: Who is that?
MAN: Wanda?
DOTTIE: Who are you?
MAN: Wanda? Wanda? Who’s doing this to you, Wanda? Wanda? Wanda? Wan-
The radio blows a fuse and begins to smoke, cutting off the voice. Dottie crushes her glass in surprise, cutting her hand. She and Wanda both gasp.
WANDA: Dottie!
She looks down and sees the blood in Dottie’s hand isn’t in black and white.
WANDA: You… oh!
Wanda gets a towel for Dottie’s hand.
DOTTIE: Pop quiz, Wanda. How does a housewife get a bloodstain out of white linen? By doing it herself.
Dottie walks away.
CUT TO: COMMERCIAL BREAK
A man in a tux stands in front of a mirror.
NARRATOR: They say a man is never fully-dressed without two important accessories.
A woman comes up behind the man.
NARRATOR: His special lady.
The camera zooms in and the man lifts up his arm, revealing his watch.
NARRATOR: And, his Strücker.
The couple walks away. The shot fades to a close up of a watch.
NARRATOR: Strücker: He’ll make time for you.
A watch ticking in the background gets faster and faster before cutting to black.
CUT TO: EXT. WESTVIEW, DAY
An establishing shot shows a grassy area set up for the talent show. Cut to a montage of various acts: Two people tap dancing, some people in wild west getups, Jones on the piano. Geraldine watches from backstage.
GERALDINE: Glad I don’t have to follow this guy!
Wanda walks by in her magician’s assistant outfit.
WANDA: Huh? What?
GERALDINE: Oh, but you’re gonna be great.
Wanda paces.
WANDA: What time is it now?
GERALDINE: Two minutes after the last time you asked.
WANDA: I don’t know where he could be!
Vision staggers into frame behind her.
GERALDINE: Oh, is that him?
Wanda gasps.
GERALDINE: Well, it looks like he’s got a little hitch in his giddy-up.
Vision struggles to make it up the stairs of the gazebo.
GERALDINE: Woah!
He nearly falls but gives a thumbs up as he catches himself.
VISION: Wanda, my little cabbage, you look smashing! Woah…
There’s a grinding noise and we again see an animation of the gum in his works.
WANDA: Vis.
VISION: Mhm.
WANDA: Where have you been?
VISION: Oh. Uh, well, me and the boys were playing a rather thrilling game of horses with shoes. No, that’s not it. Shoe horses! No. Ah! Horse’s shoes.
WANDA: Listen, something strange happened with Dottie. Well, something strange happened before that, too. It’s hard to explain.
Vision sees the performers from the wild west act pass by, including two in a horse costume.
VISION: I was just playing with his shoes!
WANDA: What is going on?!
GERALDINE: You are!
Wanda gasps. Cut to the audience. Dottie stands on stage.
DOTTIE: I want to thank you all for coming out to support Westview Elementary. For the children.
AUDIENCE: For the children.
DOTTI:E And for our final act, I give you, Wanda and Vision.
Dottie leads clapping and steps down from the stage. She gets to her seat as Wanda emerges from the curtains. She walks out further and gestures to the curtains. Nothing happens. Dottie looks miffed. Wanda looks nervous. Cut backstage, Vision is playing with his clothes.
GERALDINE: Hey, hey! You’re up, cowboy!
VISION: What?
Geraldine gestures to the curtains.
VISION: Oh, yeah! I’ve got to go.
He clumsily gets past the curtains.
VISION: Hello, Westview! Good afternoon. It’s so lovely to be-
He bumps into a railing.
VISION: I’m so sorry, excuse me. I am Glamour, and this is my delightful assistant, Illusion!
WANDA: I am Glamour, and he’s Illusion.
VISION: Yeah, what she said. Today, we will lie to you and yet you will believe our little deceptions because human beings are easily fooled due to their limited understanding of the inner workings of the universe. Flourish!
WANDA: You just do it, you don’t say it out loud, honey.
VISION: And now my wife and I will delight in your dumbstruck little faces. Flourish!
Vision begins to fly. The crowd watches and gasps. Wanda quickly creates a pulley system to make it look like she’s controlling his flying. She moves a sign out of the way and Norm spots it.
NORM: Ha! See there? He’s using a rope.
Wanda begins playing with the pulley.
VISION: Wanda, Wanda. What’s… Oh, no! Oh, no, Wanda, please! Darling, let me down!
AGNES: Oh!
VISION: I’m feeling pukey!
The crowd laughs.
VISION: Ooh.
Wanda lets him down from the Pulley. Everyone claps.
VISION: Oh, yeah! This is… This is gonna be great.
He walks over to the piano.
VISION: A staggering feat of strength!
He lifts up the piano with one arm. The crowd looks on in awe.
VISION: Eh?
WANDA: Illusion! Illusion, Master Of Enigma, allow me.
She takes the piano from him.
VISION: What? Ah…
She turns the piano into a cardboard cut-out of a piano. She walks away and holds it to the side.
WANDA: Whoops! You weren’t supposed to see how we did that trick.
The crowd laughs and claps.
JONES: That was my grandmother’s piano.
VISION: Oh, Sherbert! Yeah, this is my old mate, Sherbert.
He points at a confused Herb and comes towards him.
VISION: Stand up, Sherbert. Say hello to the crowd.
HERB: It’s Herbert- Er, Herb.
Vision pulls out playing cards.
VISION: Pipe down, Sherbie, and pick a card. Any card.
Herb takes a card. Vision turns around.
VISION: Yeah, put it back in the deck. I’m not looking.
While Vision is turned around, Herb returns his card to the deck.
VISION: Alright, watch this.
Vision shuffles the deck and holds one up to Herb.
VISION: Is this your card?
HERB: Uh, no.
VISION: I beg to differ.
Herb shakes his head.
VISION: R-really?
He tosses the card.
VISION: Is this your card?
He holds up another one.
WANDA: Vision.
Herb shakes his head. Vision gets frustrated. He rapidly pulls cards out of the deck. Herb keeps shaking his head.
VISION: Is this your card? Is this your card? Is this your card? Is this your card?
He stops on one.
VISION: Is this your card?
Herb shakes his head again.
VISION: Ugh! Is this your card? Is this your card? Is this your card? Is this your card? Is this your card? Is this your card? Is this your card? Is this your card? Is this your card?
HERB: No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No.
Vision holds up the last card in the deck.
VISION: Is this your card?
HERB: Oh, it is!
VISION: It is what?
HERB: It’s my card!
VISION: Well, pardon me, Herb, have it back.
He slaps the card onto Herb.
HERB: Oh, no, you did the trick right!
VISION: Well of course I did the trick right, I’m Illusion! Flourish!
Wanda claps. The rest of the audience laughs and claps as well.
VISION: And now, for my next trick…
WANDA: Oh, goodness me.
VISION: Oh, who stole my hat? Oh, oh, stop that rabbit!
He sees his hat tipped over on stage and Señor Scratchy making a break for it.
VISION: I gotta pull a hat out of it!
Wanda grabs Señor Scratchy.
AGNES: Señor Scratchy’s got real star quality, don’t you think?
WANDA: Maybe leave the poor bunny out of this one, shall we?
Vision grabs his hat from the ground.
VISION: Well, then I will just have to pull this hat out of myself.
The crowd gasps. Wanda runs over.
WANDA: Vision, no!
VISION: I’m doing it!
He phases the hat through his body.
VISION: Aha!
WANDA: If only you all knew our secret!
She pulls back the curtains to reveal a set of mirrors. The audience laughs.
BEVERLY: Is that how mirrors work?
DOTTIE: Shut up, Bev.
VISION: And now, ladies and gentlemen, for our grand finale, I bring you the Magnet Of Crysteries!
Wanda rolls out the cabinet.
WANDA: The Cabinet Of Mysteries.
VISION: Yeah, yeah, what she said. I will now make my wife disappear!
He opens the doors of the cabinet. The crowd oohs. He closes them before Wanda gets in.
AGNES: Are you sure you don’t want an audience volunteer named, “My husband Ralph?”
The audience laughs.
VISION: Haha! No. Abracadabra!
He hits the cabinet with his wand.
WANDA: Uh, sweetheart?
VISION: Yeah?
WANDA: Hi.
VISION: Oh.
HERB: What’s in the box?
HERB AND NORM: What’s in the box?
The whole crowd begins chanting.
AUDIENCE: What’s in the box? What’s in the box? What’s in the box?
VISION: Yeah, what’s in the box?
AUDIENCE: What’s in the box? What’s in the box? What’s in the box? What’s in the box?
Wanda waves her fingers. She and Vision open the box to reveal Geraldine. The audience applauds. Geraldine looks around confused and smiles nervously.
VISION: Oh, oh yes! Flourish!
Wanda and Vision lead Geraldine in bowing.
VISION: Let’s get out of here!
He runs backstage. Wanda follows him.
VISION: Sorry, I’m sorry, I’m so sorry. I’m so stupid.
WANDA: Vis, Vis, it’s alright. It’s alright. It’s alright. But what is going on with you?
VISION: I have no idea! I’ve been feeling weirdy all day!
WANDA: Okay, okay.
She waves her hand over him and stops around the middle. He groans.
WANDA: Oh!
We see another animation of the gum in his works. She pulls the gum up and out of Vision’s mouth. He takes it and looks at it.
VISION: Would you look at that? That really gummed up my works, didn’t it?
WANDA: Mm.
VISION: Ah, I’m not as funny without it, am I.
He throws it away.
WANDA: Well, you’re back to yourself and that’s all I care about. Now, let’s get out of here before Dottie and the planning committee string us up for ruining the show.
They abscond off to the side. Dottie and some others are on stage and everyone is clapping. Wanda and Vision try to hide their faces as they pass, but Dottie sees them.
DOTTIE: You two, stop right there.
They stop and turn.
DOTTIE: Nothing like what you two just did up here has ever happened in the history of our talent show.
WANDA: Dottie, we are so-
DOTTIE: Hilarious! That was the most hilarious act we’ve ever seen. Wouldn’t you all agree?
BEVERLY: Yes.
The whole crowd applauds.
VISION: Oh, yes!
DOTTIE: You two, come on up. Come on.
They come on stage.
DOTTIE: On behalf of the planning committee, I would like to award you with the inaugural Comedy Performance Of The Year.
Wanda takes the award.
WANDA: Oh, thank you!
The crowd applauds again. They all stand up. Wanda sees Geraldine applauding and gestures for her to join them.
GERALDINE: I have to ask, one second I’m backstage and in the next, I’m in a dark cubby hole! How’d you do it?
VISION: Oh, a magician never reveals his secrets. He leaves that to his assistant!
WANDA: And she’s not talking.
GERALDINE: I had a feeling you’d say that.
They bow one last time.
NORM: For the children!
AUDIENCE: For the children!
CUT TO: INT. LIVING ROOM, DAY
Vision and Wanda arrive home.
VISION: You were tremendous, Glamour.
WANDA: As were you, Illusion.
She walks over to the couch and places their trophy down.
WANDA: I don’t know what I was so worried about. It wasn’t so hard to fit in after all.
Vision sits next to her on the couch.
VISION: And all we had to do was be ourselves.
WANDA: Well, with a few modifications.
VISION: And it was all for the children.
WANDA: For the children. Well, I think the children might need some popcorn.
Wanda gets up.
VISION: Wanda?
WANDA: Hm? What?
She turns around, revealing herself to be heavily pregnant. Vision gets up. She gasps.
WANDA: Vision, is this really happening?
VISION: Yes, my love. It’s really happening.
They go to kiss, but there’s a loud thud outside.
VISION: If it’s that damn tree again, I am going to rip it out by the roots.
He walks outside. Wanda looks nervous and follows him. The music comes to a stop as they approach the sidewalk.
WANDA: I don’t see anything.
They look around. A noise catches their attention. Down the street, something is jostling a sewer grate.
VISION: What is that?
A hand comes out of the sewer.
VISION: Wanda.
He comes up behind her. A man in a beekeeping outfit gets out of the sewer, surrounded by bees. He looks around, eventually spotting Wanda and Vision.
WANDA: No.
Time rewinds back to when they were in the house.
WANDA: Vision, is this really happening?
VISION: Yes, my love. It’s really happening.
They kiss. Wanda pulls back and sees that Vision’s face is now in color.
WANDA: Vision.
She looks around and the whole house transforms from black and white to color. They kiss again. A hexagon zooms in and frames them. As the scene fades out, a voice is heard.
MAN: Wanda? Who’s doing this to you, Wanda? Wanda?
END CREDITS