Intro]
"Look, I was gonna go easy on you not to hurt your feelings"
"But I'm only going to get this one chance" 
"Something's wrong, I can feel it" 
"Just a feeling I've got, like something's about to happen, but I don't know what
If that means what I think it means, we're in trouble, big trouble;
And if he is as bananas as you say, I'm not taking any chances"
"You are just what the doc ordered"
I'm beginnin' to feel like a Rap God, Rap God
All my people from the front to the back nod, back nod
Now, who thinks their arms are long enough to slap box, slap box?
They said I rap like a robot, so call me Rap-bot
But for me to rap like a computer it must be in my genеs
I got a laptop in my back pocket
My pen'll go off when I half-cock it
Got a fat knot from that rap profit
Madе a livin' and a killin' off it
Ever since Bill Clinton was still in office
With Monica Lewinsky feelin' on his nutsack
I'm an MC still as honest
But as rude and as indecent as all hell
Syllables, skill-a-holic 
This flippity dippity-hippity hip-hop
You don't really wanna get into a pissin' match
With this rappity brat, packin' a MAC in the back of the Ac'
Backpack rap crap, yap-yap, yackety-yack
And at the exact same time, I attempt these lyrical acrobat stunts while I'm practicin' that
I'll still be able to break a motherfuckin' table
Over the back of a couple of faggots and crack it in half
Only realized it was ironic, I was signed to Aftermath after the fact
How could I not blow? All I do is drop F-bombs
Feel my wrath of attack
Rappers are havin' a rough time period, here's a maxi pad
It's actually disastrously bad for the wack
While I'm masterfully constructing this masterpièce
'Cause I'm beginnin' to feel like a Rap God, Rap God
All my people from the front to the back nod, back nod
Now, who thinks their arms are long enough to slap box, slap box?
Let me show you maintainin' this shit ain't that hard, that hard
Everybody want the key and the secret to rap immortality like Ι have got
Well, to be truthful the blueprint's
Simply rage and youthful exuberance
Everybody loves to root for a nuisance
Hit the Earth like an asteroid
Did nothing but shoot for the Moon since 
MCs get taken to school with this music
'Cause I use it as a vehicle to "bus the rhyme"
Now I lead a new school full of students
Me? I'm a product of Rakim
Lakim Shabazz, 2Pac, N.W.A, Cube, hey Doc, Ren
Yella, Eazy, thank you, they got Slim
Inspired enough to one day grow up, blow up and be in a position
To meet Run–D.M.C., induct them
Into the motherfuckin' Rock and Roll Hall of Fame
Even though I'll walk in the church and burst in a ball of flames
Only Hall of Fame I'll be inducted in is the alcohol of fame
On the wall of shame
You fags think it's all a game, 'til I walk a flock of flames
Off a plank and, tell me what in the fuck are you thinkin'?
Little gay-lookin' boy
So gay I can barely say it with a straight face, lookin' boy 
You're witnessin' a mass-occur
Like you're watching a church gathering take place, lookin' boy
"Oy vey, that boy's gay!"—that's all they say, lookin' boy
You get a thumbs up, pat on the back
And a "way to go" from your label every day, lookin' boy
Hey, lookin' boy! What you say, lookin' boy?
I get a "hell yeah" from Dre, lookin' boy
I'ma work for everything I have, never asked nobody for shit
Get outta my face, lookin' boy!
Basically, boy, you're never gonna be capable
Of keepin' up with the same pace, lookin' boy, 'cause—
I'm beginnin' to feel like a Rap God, Rap God
All my people from the front to the back nod, back nod
The way I'm racin' around the track, call me NASCAR, NASCAR
Dale Earnhardt of the trailer park, the White Trash God
Kneel before General Zod
This planet's Krypton—no, Asgard, Asgard
So you'll be Thor and I'll be Odin
You rodent, I'm omnipotent
Let off, then I'm reloadin'
Immediately with these bombs I'm totin'
And I should not be woken
I'm the walkin' dead, but I'm just a talkin' head, a zombie floatin'
But I got your mom deep-throatin'
I'm out my Ramen Noodle
We have nothin' in common, poodle
I'm a Doberman, pinch yourself in the arm and pay homage, pupil
It's me, my honesty's brutal
But it's honestly futile if I don't utilize what I do though
For good at least once in a while
So I wanna make sure somewhere in this chicken scratch I scribble and doodle enough rhymes
To maybe try to help get some people through tough times
But I gotta keep a few punchlines
Just in case 'cause even you unsigned
Rappers are hungry lookin' at me like it's lunchtime
I know there was a time where once I
Was king of the underground
But I still rap like I'm on my Pharoahe Monch grind
So I crunch rhymes, but sometimes when you combine
Appeal with the skin color of mine
You get too big and here they come tryin'
To censor you like that one line
I said on "I'm Back" from The Mathers LP 1 when I
Tried to say I'll take seven kids from Columbine
Put 'em all in a line, add an AK-47, a revolver and a 9
See if I get away with it now that I ain't as big as I was, but I'm
Morphin' into an immortal, comin' through the portal
You're stuck in a time warp from 2004 though
And I don't know what the fuck that you rhyme for
You're pointless as Rapunzel with fuckin' cornrows
You write normal? Fuck being normal!
And I just bought a new raygun from the future
Just to come and shoot ya, like when Fabolous made Ray J mad
'Cause Fab said he looked like a fag at Mayweather's pad
Singin' to a man while he played piano
Man, oh man, that was a 24/7 special on the cable channel
So Ray J went straight to the radio station
The very next day, "Hey Fab, I'ma kill you!"
Lyrics comin' at you at supersonic speed 
Uh, summa-lumma, dooma-lumma, you assumin' I'm a human
What I gotta do to get it through to you I'm superhuman?
Innovative and I'm made of rubber so that anything you say is ricochetin' off of me and it'll glue to you and
I'm devastating, more than ever demonstrating
How to give a motherfuckin' audience a feeling like it's levitating
Never fading, and I know the haters are forever waiting
For the day that they can say I fell off, they'll be celebrating
'Cause I know the way to get 'em motivated
I make elevating music, you make elevator music
"Oh, he's too mainstream."
Well, that's what they do when they get jealous, they confuse it
"It's not hip-hop, it's pop,"—'cause I found a hella way to fuse it
With rock, shock rap with Doc
Throw on "Lose Yourself" and make 'em lose it
"I don't know how to make songs like that
I don't know what words to use."
Let me know when it occurs to you
While I'm rippin' any one of these verses that versus you
It's curtains, I'm inadvertently hurtin' you
How many verses I gotta murder to
Prove that if you were half as nice, your songs you could sacrifice virgins too?!
Ugh, school flunky, pill junkie
But look at the accolades these skills brung me
Full of myself, but still hungry
I bully myself 'cause I make me do what I put my mind to
And I'm a million leagues above you
Ill when I speak in tongues, but it's still tongue-in-cheek, fuck you
I'm drunk, so, Satan, take the fucking wheel
I'ma sleep in the front seat
Bumpin' Heavy D and the Boyz, still "Chunky but Funky"
But in my head there's something I can feel tugging and struggling
Angels fight with devils and here's what they want from me
They're askin' me to eliminate some of the women hate
But if you take into consideration the bitter hatred
I have, then you may be a little patient
And more sympathetic to the situation
And understand the discrimination
But fuck it, life's handin' you lemons? Make lemonade then!
But if I can't batter the women
How the fuck am I supposed to bake them a cake then?!
Don't mistake him for Satan; it's a fatal mistake
If you think I need to be overseas and take a vacation
To trip a broad, and make her fall on her face and
Don't be a retard—be a king? Think not
Why be a king when you can be a god?
An English Professor Breaks Down Eminem’s Verses
Looking Back At Eminem’s “Rap God”
Check The Rhyme: Deconstructing Eminem’s “Rap God”
Eminem Explains Why 2Pac Is One The Greatest Songwriters Of All Time
Eminem’s “Godzilla” Verse Is Faster Than “Rap God” & “Majesty”
Hip-Hop's Love For 'Call Of Duty'
“Rap God” is Eminem’s braggadocious ode to himself and his career. Over its six-minute run-time, he references comic books, throws back to his old songs, and raps crazily fast
In a Q&A with MSN Music Em was asked whether he felt like a Rap God or an… read more »
Translations
French Translation
German Translation
Italian Translation
Portuguese Translation
Russian Translation
Thai Translation
Turkish Translation
2 contributors
What has Eminem said about the production of this song?
In a conversation between producer DVLP and Eminem, the rapper spoke about the beat:
Dude, I swear this is one of the illest beats I’ve ever heard
1 contributor
Does he believe in God?
In a 2009 interview with Vibe magazine, Eminem revealed that he believes in God:
Spirituality is definitely a part of that process. They tell you in recovery to pray to your higher power–God is my higher power and He always has been. I definitely pray a lot more than I used to. I don’t feel like I’m crazy wacky religious where I’m at church four days a week or anything like that–not to say that that’s a bad thing for anyone who wants to do that. But I do believe in God, and I do pray
Lately, Em has shown his spirituality more openly in his music
3 contributors
Who does Eminem name drop in this song?
In total, Eminem name drops 22 people, with three people being mentioned more than once. He name drops Bill Clinton, Monica Lewinsky, Rakim, Lakim Shabazz, 2Pac, N.W.A, Dr. Dre three times, MC Ren, DJ Yella, Eazy E, Run-D.M.C., General Zod, Thor and Odin, Pharoahe Monch, Fabolous three times, Ray J twice, Floyd Mayweather, Heavy D and the Boys, and finally, Satan
3 contributors
Did Em's third verse speed rap beat any other's rap verses?
A YouTuber compared the third verse, specifically the speed-rap portion, to other rappers' verses. Up against the likes of Twista, Busta Rhymes, Tech N9ne, and Young Blaze, Em lost the word count, but won the syllable count. There is also a part 2, which offers further comparison
2 contributors
Was there any controversy surrounding "Rap God?"
Eminem was accused of homophobia, thanks to using the slur “faggot” in the first verse and the use of “gay” three times in five lines during verse two. He later responded to the accusations in an interview with Rolling Stone
2 contributors
What other songs has Filthy produced?
Filthy was a major part of Lil Wayne’s Tha Carter II, producing or co-producing “Fireman,” “Hit Em Up” and “Feel Me.”
Filthy also produced “Blunt Blowin'” off Lil Wayne’s The Carter IV
1 contributor
How did other famous rap artists react to Rap God?
Ice Cube reacted to Rap God saying this:
That song is lyrically incredible, and thank God, you know. Lyrics still rule the day. No matter how commercialized hip-hop tries to get, or how commercialized people’s vision of hip-hop and b-boys and rappers are, lyrics still rule the day.  always delivers, he always gives quality. He’s gonna be around for a long, long time because of that, because he’s a true b-boy. He ain’t no dude that’s just in it for the fringe benefits, he’s in it for the respect
2 contributors
How long did it take to write "Rap God"?
As Marshall said in this interview, he freestyled the whole thing, so it took just 6 minutes
Of course this was a joke. Eminem himself said that he doesn’t remember how much time it took
2 contributors
Are there any samples in "Rap God"?
“Rap God” contains a sample of Dough E. Fresh & The Get Fresh Crew’s “The Show,” as well as a sample from Captain America and the Falcon in: “And a Phoenix Shall Arise!”
1 contributor
How many words are in the fastest verse on this song?
On the third, final verse there’s 804 words. With the verse taking only 3 minutes and 14 seconds, that’s 4.14 words per second!
2 contributors
Who's the guy Eminem is impersonating at the beginning of the music video?
The guy who Eminem parodies in the suit is a character by the name of Max Headroom, a fictional artificial intelligence character, as well as an icon of pop culture during the ‘80s: originally, he was the main character of a 1987 self-titled satirical science fiction series, but his popularity was mainly boosted by his feature on “Paranoimia”, a song by the British experimental group Art of Noise
3 contributors
How many syllables per second does the fast part have?
157 syllables in 16.29 seconds averages in about 9.6 syllables per second
1 contributor
Has Eminem ever rapped faster than the speedy segment on "Rap God?"
Yes. He recently surpassed the verse in speed with his verse on Nicki Minaj’s 2018 track “Majesty” where he rapped 123 syllables in 12 seconds, .7 syllables faster than the quick segment on the “Rap God” verse
2 contributors
What certifications did this track receive?
“Rap God” was certified 4x platinum by the RIAA on February 28, 2018
1 contributor
Is this the most-viewed song page on Genius?
No. At the time of this writing , the most-viewed song page on Genius is “Despacito ” with 23 million views. “Rap God” is the second most-viewed song page on Genius with 16.3 million views
2 contributors
Ask us a question about this song
Ask a question
28
16,770,334
Hip-Hop, Hardcore Hip-Hop, Producer, Electronic, Memes, Rap
Locked
Lyrics Complete
Written By
DVLP, Arabian Prince, OG Rocker & 8 more
Additional Keyboards
Joe Strange
Label
Universal Music Group, Shady Records, Aftermath Entertainment & 1 more
Publisher
Premier Music, Shelly Bay Music, Hebrew Hustle Music & 19 more
Performance Rights
ASCAP, BMI & SESAC
Instrumentation
DVLP
Recording Engineer
Joe Strange, Mike Strange & Tony Campana
Additional Programmer
Joe Strange
Mastering Engineer
Brian Gardner
Mixing Engineer
Mike Strange & Eminem
Co-Producer
Filthy
Mixed At
Effigy Studios
Video Producer
Justin Diener & Kathy Angstadt
Video Director
Rich Lee
Recorded At
Effigy Studios, Ferndale, Michigan
Release Date
October 15, 2013
Samples
Supersonic by J.J. Fad
2 more
Sampled In
Cancerfest by M0by's tr4cks 
9 more
Interpolates
8 Mile: 313 Cypher  by Eminem 
6 more
Interpolated By
Baba Jaga by Nitro
12 more
Cover By
Gap Rod by Dan Bull
6 more
Remixed By
RapGod by Jesto
15 more
Https%3a%2f%2fimages
The Marshall Mathers LP2 
Eminem
1
Bad Guy
2
Parking Lot 
3
Rhyme or Reason
4
So Much Better
5
Survival
6
Legacy
7
Asshole
8
Berzerk
9
Rap God
10
Brainless
11
Stronger Than I Was
12
The Monster
13
So Far...
14
Love Game
15
Headlights
16
Evil Twin
17
Don’t Front
18
Baby
19
Desperation
20
Groundhog Day
21
Beautiful Pain
22
Wicked Ways
Home  E  Eminem  Rap God Lyrics