In  her  classic 1969 essay "Trash, Art, and the Movies," Pauline Kael wrote of "trash" films that  when  "you  clean  them  up, when you make movies respectable,  you kill them. The well­ spring of their art, their greatness, is in not being re­spectable."91 While  it  could  be said  that  punk  fought long and hard against respectability,  there is no denying that the early to mid-1970s New York scene from which it emerged  was a heady mix of artists and performers. It's  almost impossible  today to imagine  a contemporary music scene  as peopled  with artists, writers, and filmmakers as the early punk move­ment  was, with  people  like Andy Warhol, William  S. Burroughs, Patti  Smith,  Mary  Harron, Arturo  Vega, Amos Poe, Ellen Willis, Gerard  Malanga,  and others  all part of the scene. As Dick Hebdige has noted, "the New York punk bands had pieced  together from  a variety  of acknowl­edged  'artistic' sources-from  the literary  avant-garde and  the  underground cinema-a self-consciously  pro­fane and terminal  aesthetic."92
This  isn't  to suggest a calculated  effort, at least not by the Ramones,  to draw on artistic sources,  but rather that part of what made the band great was its emergence from  a vibrant  New York movement  in which distinc­tions between pop culture and art were blurred. A friend of mine always likes to point  out that British punk was more "authentic" than American  because it came from the working class, as opposed to the suburbs. But leaving aside the problems of this distinction  what I think he misses in that view is that it was the very impurity  of punk-its mixing  of suburban   and  down­ town, of high art and "stoopid," of camp and sincerity, of humor and violence-that made it so radical. Arguments about  purity  or authenticity of punk inevitably  end up excluding the messy, impure,  hybrid qualities that keep it sounding fresh thirty  years later.
In fact, prior to his involvement in the band, Tommy Ramone  had even made avant-garde films: "I was  into  film-making. I guess I was jumping  around. I went  to work  for  this film company.  I was hanging around  the Museum  of Modern Art 'cause the company was right next to the Museum. I would take three-hour lunch  breaks and watch all the movies there  and I got into  avant-garde films. I started  making some stuff like that."93 The Pop Art movement of the 195Os and 60s-of which Andy Warhol was the American  Giant-had  al­ready smashed  distinctions between  "high" and "low" culture;  by the 1970s it wasn't that what punk was doing by mixing styles was new, rather  that they had re-infused the process with a sense of fun and danger.
According  to Craig Leon, most of the work with the band was completed  in seven days: "It  took  just three days to get  the  music down,  four  for  the vocals."94   In the  era  of  bloated,  super  group  excess, $6,400  was a paltry  amount  of money.  "Some  albums  were  costing a half-million  dollars to make," Joey noted, "and taking two or three years to record, like Fleetwood Mac ... "95 At first, the process sounds like the ultimate do-it-your­self, amateur, reckless ethic that is associated with punk. In  truth,   however,  the  Ramones   approached  the  re­ cording  process with a high degree of preparedness and professionalism  and a fiercely self-contained, unified sound.  But this had  not  always been  the  case. In July 1974 Tommy became the Ramones' drummer, and the band's sound  underwent a change: "To them it was just a hobby,"  he told Punk in 1976, "to me it was an avant­ garde thing. Then we started  getting  really good  and I said, 'This isn't  avant-garde, this is commercial!' And that's  when  I started  playing  drums.  When I saw the $signs$ ...  changed  the whole sound of the group into  the way it is now-you know-hard rock."96
Near  the  end  of  1974,  the  band  recorded   fifteen demos  in  one  day. These were  "just  basic tracks  and vocals and  mixes of most  of the  songs  that  made  up their first album."97 In September 1975 they cut the two Marty  Thau demos  .  The sound  on  the Thau demos is somewhat richer and warmer than on the other demos, and it hints at a more pop-oriented, melodic sensibility that shows how, with a slightly different  approach,  the Ramones' sound  could  be less assaultive.
Although  the  band wanted  to suggest  the intensity of their live performances, the album was in no way intended to be "live." As Craig  Leon  notes, "capturing the energy  of the live shows  was quite  important. But if you jump to the conclusion  that the sound  of the recording was just the sound of the band live you would be mistaken even though  that was what I was trying  to convey. The  album is quite layered and structured and took full advantage of the studio technology of its time without being obvious."98 This tension-how to transfer the spirit of live performance without simply replicating it-was something that haunted  punk, and in some ways worked against it. For if progressive,  virtuoso  rock encouraged  deep,  repeat  listenings  and  a cultivated  appreciation for  complexity,  punk  assaulted  the  listener in a way that  almost  begged  for  a live audience.  One of the reasons punk did not move gently into the main­stream or receive more radio play was precisely because it was always about more than the music on the album: it was a stance, an attitude, that was difficult to transfer to vinyl.
Yet the band, and Craig  Leon,  were determined to create  a live feel to  the  album.  "I  actually  toyed  with the idea," says Leon,  "of the recording being one long band  with  no breaks" in a way that  would  capture  the no-break-between-songs live performances. There  are hints of this at the end of the album's second side, where "I  Don't Wanna  Walk  Around  with You" is followed by "Today Your  Love,  Tomorrow the  World"  with no  break.  There were  other   experiments that  didn't happen, either, according to Leon: "here was a quad­raphonic version that I played around  with doing. I did a  lot of quad  encoded  work in  those  days and  almost did the  Ramones  album  that  way."99   By the  time  they went into the studio  to record,  the Ramones had devel­oped  an  archive  of songs  and  had  honed  their  sound before audiences at numerous shows. "We had the songs for  the  first  three  albums  when  we did  the first one," Johnny has said. "We  already had 30 to 35 songs, and we recorded  them  in  the  chronological order  that  we wrote  them.  I didn't want  the  second  album  to  be a letdown  by picking through the best songs for the first one and using the lesser songs for the second album."100?
Before considering details of the album's production, it's worth noting how difficult it was-then, as now-for a good band to make the transition from live act to meaningful  recorded  presence. Indeed,  the pages of the underground music press in New York City in the mid-1970s are full of ads and enthusiastic write-ups for enormously popular  punk bands at the club level that subsequently  failed to  transfer  that  spirit  to vinyl. In "The State of Pop Music in New York: A Symposium" from the Village Voice, musician  and  record  producer  Tony Silvester noted  that the "reason  a lot of great acts don't happen on records is because they don't feel that tension that  they feel live-9 out  of 10 times on a record  they try to duplicate  the club scene and it doesn't happen." What's missing,  Silvester  claimed,  is "simplicity  from the standpoint of production."101
Here  is  Craig  Leon  addressing  the  album's production:
The album was recorded purely. Nothing covered up. The same way that you would record a classical or jazz work. We use the same mic placement techniques on the London Symphony Orchestra or the Orpheus Chamber Orchestra today that we used on the Ra­mones in 1976. These  techniques are the same as what you would have gotten  on classical or  jazz re­cordings or  for that matter  good  pop  recordings  in 1956. The  sound of the music in the room. Minimal effects other  than those created naturally. But it was not "cinéma vérité" all live and raw.
We did a lot of overdubbing and double-tracked vocals, going for a bizarre emulation of the recording values of "A Hard Day's Night." The stereo image was inspired by that as well. Due to the limitations of 4 track recording in the 60s the image on the old Beatles records in stereo used to have the entire backing track on the left and vocals and tambourine overdubs or whatever on the right. This fit the thee-piece sound of the Ramones perfectly. There was a conventional mix of the recording but it wasn't as effective. Also, a mono mix. Some of those tracks surfaced on singles. The mono version is quite powerful....
Notes...
91.  Pauline Kael, "Trash, Art, and the Movies," p. 115.
92.  Dick Hebdige, Subculture, p. 27.
93.  Tommy Ramone, quoted in Clinton Heylin, From the Velvets to the Voidoids, p. 169.
94.  Craig  Leon,  interview  with John  Holmstrom, Punk no. 3, 1976.
95. Joey Ramone, quoted in Legs McNeil,  Please Kill Me, p. 229.
96. Tommy  Ramone,  interview  with John  Holms­trom, Punk no. 3, 1976.
97. Jim Bessman, Ramones: An American Band, p. 38.
98.  Craig  Leon,  personal  interview,  13  September 2004.
99.  Craig Leon, personal interview, 26 May 2004.
100. Johnny  Ramone, quoted in Monte  Melnick, On the Road with the Ramones, p. 194.
101. Tony  Silvester, in "The  State of Pop  Music in New York: A Symposium," Village  Voice, 8 Sep­tember 1975.