Act I
Ozai:  Come on out  Avatar, you can't  hide in there forever!
Sokka: Toph, metalbend the rudder so it's jammed in the turning position. The ship will spiral and slam into the others.
Toph: Got it.
Sokka:  Have I ever mentioned how sweet it is that you invented metalbending?
Toph: You could stand to mention it more.
(Cut to a bottom shot of another airship shooting flames towards the ground. The flames dissipate as the sabotaged airship slams into it. Cut to the roof of the airship as a trapdoor opens to reveal an elite firebender. Camera zooms out to show Toph and Sokka who notice the intrusion. Sokka grabs Toph's arms as they run off screen, narrowly missing a strong fire blast. Cut to an overhead shot of the scene to show the long and unwavering blast changing angles as Toph and Sokka struggle to get out of the path of fire.
Cut to an area just below the airship's envelope as Toph and Sokka jump off. Sokka unsheathes his sword as he does so. Cut to the sword digging into the airship's envelope and sparking due to friction. Cut to a sideview shot of the scene to show that the sword is slowing their descent somewhat. Cut to an overhead shot of Sokka as he looks at his sword with fear and Toph screams. Cut to a close up of Sokka as he looks down. Cut to a sideview shot of the scene to show them nearing the end of the envelope.
The sword doesn't make contact with the envelope and both of them are thrown off the ship's surface. Sokka loses his hold on the sword. Cut to the bottom of a wrench-shaped platform as Sokka lands on the extension beam with a loud groan while Toph falls through the U-shaped portion of the platform. Sokka is still holding on to her. Cut to their hands as Toph slowly slips down. Cut to an overhead shot of Sokka with his left leg bent at an awkward angle. His sword is punctured vertically into the balance beam near his legs.)
Sokka:  My leg!  Hang on Toph!
Toph: Aye aye, Captain.
(Pan out to a neighboring platform as an elite firebender attached to a safety harness enters the screen. Cut to Sokka who turns his head to find another firebender taking position on the other side. Cut to a close up shot of a perspiring Sokka as his head shifts from the right to the left. Cut to the firebender getting into a stance. Cut to Sokka's boomerang holder as his hand reaches into it.
Cut to a frontal shot of the firebender and time slows down as he starts to firebend. Time resumes back to normal as Sokka unsheathes his boomerang. Cut to the firebender on the right of Sokka as he falls when Sokka strikes him with his boomerang. Cut to Sokka's point of view as he uses his uninjured leg to kick up the hilt of his sword. Cut to an overhead shot of Sokka as he grabs the sword. Cut to a side shot above Sokka's torso as he hurtles his sword and cuts the platform the remaining firebender is standing on. The harness prevents him from falling to his death. Sokka looks down. Cut to a space beneath the airship as Sokka's sword falls away.)
Sokka: Bye Space Sword.
Sokka:I don't think Boomerang is coming back, Toph.  It looks like this is the end.
Toph: How did that happen? Did Boomerang come back?
Sokka:  No,  Suki did.
(Cut to an overhead shot of Aang's rockball as Ozai sends a curved fireball with his left hand, a straight blast and then 2 curved blasts towards the ball with both hands. The impact lifts the rock ball off the ground. Cut to a side shot of the ball as another fire blast hits the ball, sending it back. Ozai flies up with his firebending rocket and heads towards the ball, firebending along the way. He lands and sends a torrent of flames at the ball. Cut to a side shot of the scene to show the intensity of the fire. The flames are several feet tall.
Cut to Aang cringing inside the ball. Cut to Ozai who smiles evilly. Cut back to Aang in the ball as the interior glows and darkens rapidly. Cut to the surface of the ball as it glows red hot from the flames. Camera zooms out to show Ozai jumping backwards and raising his arm up. Cut to the palm of his hand as a small ball of fire ignites in his palm. Camera follows Ozai as he runs, jumps and throws the fire at the ball. Cut back to Aang as the rocks fall apart. Cut back to outside the ball to show various parts of it crumbling away, revealing Aang who has a small shield of air around him.
Cut to Aang who is moved back by the impact and time slows down. Cut to Aang's scar on his back as it makes contact with a jutted edge of a rock wall behind him. As he lands against it, time resumes back to normal and the background flashes to white and Aang's body is in black. Cut to Aang being shot with lightning in Crossroads of Destiny. Cut to Aang looking at the past Avatars in The Avatar State as the line of Avatars come back. Cut to Avatar Kyoshi opening her glowing eyes. Camera quickly pans across a few previous Avatars as they open their glowing eyes. Cut to Avatar Roku opening his eyes in Avatar and the Fire Lord. Cut back to the line again as the camera rapidly pans across them. Cut to Aang inside his crystal shelter in Crossroads of Destiny as he opens his eyes. Cut back to the line again. Cut to Aang opening his eyes underwater in The Storm. Cut to the Avatar Spirit in Aang's mind. Its arrows glow with bright intensity and the camera zooms in on it. Fade back to an overhead shot of Ozai walking towards a pile of steaming rocks.)
Ozai: Come on out little boy,  you're about to be...
(A glowing arm sticks out from the pile and grabs Ozai's beard to his astonishment. Cut to an overhead shot of the pile. Cut to a close up of Aang's head under the pile as he looks up menacingly with glowing eyes and tattoos. Cut to a side shot of the scene as Aang jumps out and stares hard at Ozai. The Phoenix King firebends his arm in an arc toward Aang. Cut to an area behind Aang's head as time slows down. Aang releases his hold on Ozai's beard and swipes Ozai's arm. Cut to a far side shot of the scene to show a large burst of flame being directed to the air.
Cut to an area behind Ozai's back as he looks up at his arm in dismay. Aang makes several gestures around his head and thrusts his palms out. Cut to a side shot of the scene as Aang airbends. Cut to an area behind Aang's back to show Ozai being thrown back violently by the air. Camera follows Ozai rolling and colliding against the ground like a rag doll. His back collides against a stone pillar and he grimaces in pain. Cut to a frontal shot of Ozai as lands in a crouch behind a mist of smoke. Cut to an area behind Ozai as the smoke clears. He looks up and camera pans up to show Aang descending onto Ozai with a sphere of air circling around him.
Cut to a close up of Aang's face as he firebends with a roar through his mouth. Camera pans out to show him firebending out of his limbs as well, looking like a star. The sphere moves up towards the sky. Cut to a side shot of the scene near the shore as the 5 streams of fire loop about. Cut to Ozai who moans and struggles against the stinging air pressure. Cut to an area behind Ozai's back as the pillars crumble from the wind.
Cut back to the shore as the fire streams circle and tighten around the ball. At the same time, pieces of earth from the ground beneath Aang and remaining water from the ocean floor slowly make their way towards the sphere. Cut to an undershot of the sphere as the fire streams gather and form a revolving ring near the centre outside of the sphere. The pieces of earth fly up into screen. Cut to Aang's clenched fist as he tightens them. Cut back to the pieces of earth as they're bent into a smaller size and they fly towards the sphere. Cut to a side shot of the shore to show a wide circle of air revolving below Aang and water slowly bent above the air circle.
Cut to Aang's back view as he bends the earth into a North-West position around him, inside the sphere. The water gets bent into a North-East position inside the sphere as well. The various elements continue to orbit around him as he does so. Cut back to Ozai looking from behind his arms as his eyes widen in shock. Cut to a frontal shot of an angry Aang. Camera slowly zooms out to show his lethal sphere of elements.
Cut back to an empty courtyard in Ba Sing Se. 2 columns of fire are seen shooting upwards from behind some houses. Camera pans to the right and the ground shakes and a sinkhole forms. Bumi jumps out from the hole. He looks around and makes a "Whoa" noise. Cut to 5 Fire Nation tanks that roll in and one starts to firebend from the opening. Cut back to Bumi who raises a protective wall of earth. The wall comes down and camera zooms out slightly. Bumi earthbends several chunks of earth from the ground and kicks them towards the tanks. Cut to an opening of a tank as it opens to firebend at Bumi but gets quickly cut off by a chunk of rock that slams against the opening.
Cut to an overhead shot of the tanks as the neighbouring tank starts to firebend but suffers the same fate. Cut to Bumi who turns and makes several earthbending movements with his arms and he raises his arms up. Cut to a column of earth rising from beneath a tank, throwing it up. 2 more columns enter the screen as the tanks fly off screen. Cut to an overhead shot of a tank that has been turned turtle and more tanks fly into screen and they get stacked on top of each other. The base opening of the topmost tank opens to reveal a shakey Fire Nation soldier who moans with discomfort. The other soldiers also come out of the tanks, not feeling well either.
Cut to a back view of Iroh standing in front of the Earth King's palace. The Earth Kingdom symbol has been covered with a Fire Nation banner. Cut to a close up frontal shot of Iroh as a wave of water and a column of fire burst out from some houses behind him. Iroh sticks out 2 fingers and firebends at the banner. Cut to the Fire Nation banner as it catches fire. Cut back to Iroh who smiles. Cut to a back view of Iroh as the banner burns away to reveal the Earth Kingdom symbol.
Cut to an area behind Ozai's back as Aang's sphere drops down towards him. Cut to a side shot as Ozai gets hit by the sphere and gets carried by it for a short distance before Aang airbends him away. Camera pans across some stone pillars to show Ozai being thrown upwards to the air. Aang's sphere swiftly flies into screen towards Ozai. Cut to Ozai who groans in pain and looks ahead. Camera pans out to show Aang's sphere catching up to him. Ozai firebends with his feet away from the sphere. Cut to an overhead shot of the scene as Ozai's stream of fire moves away from the sphere and Aang's sphere suddenly moves up towards the camera.
Aang makes gestures with his arms. Cut to a piece of earth inside Aang's sphere as they get broken apart into small earth bullets. Cut to an area behind Aang's back as he sends the earth bullets towards the rock pillars, creating a huge plume of smoke. A small stream of fire flies away from the top of the smoke. Cut back to a close up frontal shot of a furious Aang who runs within his sphere towards the camera.
Cut to an overhead shot of the ceremonial plaza in the Fire Nation. Cut to a close up of Zuko lying on the floor with some small flames burning the ground around him. Cut to a frontal shot of Zuko's head as he struggles to get up. Cut to Katara who gasps. Switch to Katara's point of view as she runs with her arms moving about in front of her body towards Zuko. She bends a water glove around her hand as blue fire engulfs the whole screen. Cut to an area behind Katara's back as she shields herself from Azula's flames.
The fire clears to reveal Azula laughing hysterically and jumping into screen, charging up with lightning. Katara runs off quickly. Cut to a frontal shot of Zuko as he attempts to get up and stretches his arms out helplessly. Switch to Zuko's point of view as Katara runs around the perimeter of the plaza, narrowly missing Azula's lighting. Cut to a frontal shot of Katara as she somersaults away from the impact. She turns back as Azula firebends herself onto the roof. Cut to a close up of Azula as she charges up with lightning.)
Azula: I'd really rather our family physician look after  little Zuzu if you don't  mind!
Azula:  Zuzu,  you don't look so good!
(Cut to a frontal shot of Katara who looks up to the roof. Cut back to Azula on the roof as she charges up with lightning and sends out a bolt. Cut to the end of the corridor as Katara runs to hide behind another pillar as the lightning makes contact with the previous pillar. Cut to a close up side shot of Katara who stares at the destroyed pillar. With a look of determination, she turns away. Cut to an area in the plaza looking at Katara as she stretches her arms out. Camera pans out to show her bending a stream of water from a nearby fountain. Cut back to Katara as she bends the water towards the roof.
Cut to a frontal shot of Katara as Azula flies in behind her. She runs off. Cut to a wide shot of the plaza as Katara runs and bends a wave of water from the same fountain. Azula continues to levitate behind her closely with her firebending jets. Cut to the water waves as Katara surfs into screen. A fire blast evaporates the water but Katara still has enough to continue surfing. Azula enters the screen and drops to the ground in a roll. Cut to a frontal shot of Azula as she firebends wildly towards Katara. Cut to a frontal shot of Katara as she surfs away in time.
Cut to an overhead shot of some drains inside the plaza as Katara stumbles into it. Cut to a close up of Katara she looks down at the drain while the wall of fire dissipates behind her. Camera pans to the flowing water inside the drain. Cut to Katara's point of view looking at the rich water source. Cut to a frontal shot of Katara she looks up. Camera quickly cuts to a metal chain looped around a handle. Cut back to Katara as she stands up.
Cut to Azula's hand grabbing a pillar. Camera pans to the left to show Katara running from behind a pillar with chains in her hands.)
Azula: There you  are, filthy peasant!
(Cut to the end of the drain looking at Azula walking towards a stationary Katara. Cut to a close up side shot of Katara as she narrows her eyes with determination. Cut to Azula's eyes as she narrows them with hate. Cut to a frontal shot of Katara as she sends streams of water towards Azula. Cut to Azula who dodges them and rolls across the drain. Cut back to the end of the drain as Katara walks closer to Azula while Azula attempts to stand up. Cut to a frontal shot of Azula as she thrusts her fingers out. Switch to Azula's point of view as Katara moves backwards.
Cut to a side view shot of the scene as Katara bends water from the drain, freezing their movements. Camera zooms out slowly. Cut to a close up of a surprised Azula as her eyes dart around but she is unable to move. Cut to a close up of Katara with Azula's fingers inches away from her face. Katara exhales and the ice around her body melt into water as she proceeds to chain Azula's arm. Cut to an area behind Azula as Katara floats through the water, chaining Azula's remaining arm. Cut to close up shot of an angry Azula as her head is brought down. Cut to a frontal shot of the scene to show Katara bringing Azula to her knees as she floats behind her. Cut to Katara's hands as she wraps the chains around the drain gratings. Cut to an overhead shot of the 2 girls as Katara waterbends the water back to the drain.
Camera zooms out as the water flows away and both of them cough and gasp for air. Katara grabs the chains. Cut to the chains as Katara tightens them. Cut to an annoyed Azula. Camera zooms out as Katara tightens them for one last time before running off screen. Cut to Zuko who moans with pain. Katara's boot comes into screen and she kneels at Zuko's side. She turns him over so the lightning wound is facing her. Parts of his robe around the wound site got burnt off. She brings up a water gloved hand. Cut to an overhead shot of the wound as she presses the water glove on the wound and it spreads out. Cut to an overhead shot of the scene as the water glows blue.
Cut to a side view shot of Zuko as he grimaces and relaxes. He opens his eyes. Cut to Katara who opens her eyes and smiles with relief as she looks at Zuko.)
Zuko: Thank you, Katara.
Katara:  I think I'm the one who should be thanking you.
(Cut to a side shot of both of them as Katara helps him sit up. Cut to an angry Azula who exhales uncontrollably rapidly and firebends out from her mouth. Cut to a frontal shot of her as she struggles and continues to firebend at the drain. Camera zooms out slowly to show Zuko and Katara looking at her as Azula lands on her back. Cut to a close up of Azula's face as she breaks down into tears. Cut to a frontal shot of Zuko and Katara as they look on. Katara is in shock and looks away. She looks up at Zuko who looks at his sister expressionlessly. Cut to an overhead shot of the drain as Azula continues to whimper and flail around.
Cut to commercial break.)
Act II
(Scene returns to the red sky and a long stream of fire enters the screen. Cut Ozai who is flying away from Aang. Switch to Ozai's point of view as he dodges the rock pillars. Cut to Aang who flies closer to the camera and brings his arms together. Cut to 2 rock pillars as they close together. Cut to Ozai who stops in front of the pillars and changes direction. Cut to an overhead shot of the pillars. Cut to Aang who circles his arms around his body. Cut back to an overhead shot of the pillars as Ozai flies nearer the camera but gets hit by a blast of water. Cut to the base of some pillars as the water flows off, revealing Ozai as he presses his back against the pillar, looking up.
Camera pans up and Aang breaks the top part of the pillar, descending towards Ozai. Cut to a top view of Ozai as he turns back and firebends. Cut to a side view shot of Ozai as he flies away with his feet and his arm extends out towards Aang, time slows down slightly. As Ozai moves off screen, time returns back to normal and Aang's sphere crashes into the ground and he brings more chunks of earth with him. Cut to Ozai who flies behind a pillar. Camera pans up to the top of the pillar as Ozai lands and firebends with his feet. Cut to Aang who brings his arms together. Cut to an overhead shot of the scene to show that Aang brought another 2 pillars together to block Ozai's attack. Cut to Aang's back as he proceeds to earthbend the pillars into an ‘X' shape.
Cut to a side view shot of the scene as Ozai flies off. Cut to a close up of Aang as he turns in his sphere and stops in a stance with his arms up. Camera zooms out to reveal 5 streams of fire coming out from the revolving circle of fire. Cut to a wide side shot of the pillars as the 5 streams of fire chase a flying Ozai who dodges them. Ozai stops in front of the camera and realizes a stream of fire coming up from behind him and he flies off. Camera pans to the left as the fire stream hits a pillar that Ozai just flew past. Aang's sphere enters the screen. Cut to a top view of Ozai as he lands perpendicular to a pillar with his feet and extends his arms out.
Cut to an overhead shot of the scene as he sends 3 streams of fire towards Aang. Cut to Aang who extends his arms out. 3 streams of water and a gust of air come out from his sphere. Cut to an undershot of Ozai's flames as the water and air intercept it. Cut to an overhead shot of the flames as the water and air circle around them. The flames dissipate. Cut to a side shot of the pillar as a strong gust of air hits Ozai and he gets flung towards the camera. Cut to the pillar as it erodes away rapidly. Aang flies by and the top part of the pillar collapses.
Cut to a side shot of Aang chasing Ozai as Aang knocks down a pillar. He gains up on Ozai and knocks down another pillar. Ozai changes direction and Aang follows, knocking another pillar again. Cut to a close up of Ozai who looks back fearfully. Cut to a plume of smoke as Aang's sphere comes through it. Cut to Ozai who gasps and desperately tries to get out of the way. Cut to Aang as he arms moves in a circular motion in front of his body. His face comes towards the camera to show him clenching his jaw with anger. He closes his fist. Cut to flames coming out of Ozai's foot as a loop of water extinguishes it and curls around his calf and creeps up to his body. Cut to Ozai's torso to show the water creeping up to his head. Ozai is visibly terrified. He gets pulled back by the water.
Cut to a full view of the sphere as Aang waterbends the loop around and throws Ozai off screen. Cut to the top of a pillar as Ozai lands on his back forcefully with the water. The water flows off. Cut an area above Ozai's head as Aang's sphere descends towards him. Cut to a close up of Aang as he extends his arms out and clenches them. Cut to Ozai's feet as mounds of earth encase them. Cut to a close up of Ozai's face as he looks at his hand being encases in earth. Camera pans out to his other hand and he looks at his remaining hand being closed up in earth. Cut to a shot at the end of Ozai's legs as Aang's sphere enters the screen. Cut to a close up overhead shot of Ozai as he looks up in fear.)
Aang:  Fire Lord Ozai, you and your forefathers have devastated the balance of this world, and now  you shall pay the ultimate price.
(Aang makes a weaving motion across his body. Camera pans to an overhead shot of the pillars as a stream of fire interlaced with water, air and rocks extend out like a snake. Cut to Aang who moves his arms in a slashing motion. Cut to the tip of elemental stream as it rapidly descends. Ozai widens his eyes in fear and he closes them. Cut to Aang's hand as his tattoos stop glowing. Cut to the elemental stream as it falls apart. Water drops onto Ozai's face and he looks up, surprised. Aang drops his arms and shakes his head as his tattoos and eyes cease glowing.
Cut to an area behind Ozai's head as Aang lowers his sphere of an air onto the ground. The mounds of earth holding Ozai's limbs together break apart as he looks on dumbfounded. He moans and struggles to sit up. Cut to a side shot of the top of the pillar as Ozai gets up into a kneeling position while Aang touches the floor.)
Aang:  No... I'm not going to end it like this.
Ozai: Even with all the power in the World,  you are still weak.
(Ozai proceeds to move forward. Cut to a slight overhead shot of the scene as it switches to Toph's black and white earthbending sight. Shock waves move out from Ozai's hand and it travels up Aang's body towards his brain. Colour returns back to normal and camera zooms out to a side view shot of the pillar as time slows down. Aang sticks out his leg behind him and earthbends a mini rock wall that directs Ozai's hand upwards so the flames don't hit him. Cut to a close up of Aang as he runs off screen and traps Ozai's hand within the rock wall. Camera rotates to Ozai's free hand as he starts to firebend but Aang brings up his arms and traps that hand in a rocky mound as well. Camera continues to rotate as Aang steps in front of Ozai and lowers the mounds to bring Ozai to his knees. Ozai tries to firebend out of his mouth but Aang sends out a gust of air to dissipate the flames and his right hand touches Ozai's forehead while his left hand touches his chest.
Switch to Aang's point of view as Ozai appears immobilized. The lion turtle's chanting music plays. Cut to a close up of Aang as he closes his eyes and concentrates. Fade to Aang confronting the lion turtle in The Old Masters.)
Lion Turtle:In the era before the Avatar, we bend not the elements,  but the energy within  ourselves.
(Cut to the lion turtle's eye as the green light shadows it. Cut to a far side view shot of the scene to show a bright glowing light around the lion turtle's head and Aang's body. Fade back to present day Aang still deep in concentration. He lifts his head and white-blue light streams out from his eyes and mouth, Cut to a sideview shot of the scene as the light seems to stream on endlessly. Cut to Ozai's eyes as orange light streams out of there and his mouth. Camera cuts to a far side shot of the scene to show 2 streams of each colour mingled together.
Cut to a close up of the two of them as the pillar rumbles and shakes. White-blue light covers Aang's head and travels down his entire body. Orange light travels down from Ozai's head towards his entire body as well. Cut to full view of the pillar to show the intensity of the light. Half the background is completely filled with white-blue light while the other half is filled with orange light.)
Lion Turtle:  To bend another's energy, your own spirit  must be unbendable, or you will be corrupted  and destroyed.
(Cut to an overhead view of Aang's head as the orange light slowly covers his entire head. Cut to a full view of the pillar as the background is almost covered with orange light and the remaining beam of white-blue light slowly diminishes. Cut to a close up of Aang's face as one eye continues to stream white-blue light but it is rapidly fading away into orange light. Suddenly Aang throws up his head and white-blue light covers his entire head again. Cut to sideview of Aang as the white-blue light travels through his body and into Ozai's in a split second.
Cut to a full view of the pillar as the white-blue light fills up the entire screen. Cut to an overhead view of the pillars as a single beam of white-blue light shoots up towards the sky. Camera pans from the pillars to the sky as the white-blue light hits the clouds to form a circle. The beam of the white-blue light widens. Cut back to an overhead view of the pillars as the white-blue light fades away. Cut to Ozai's back as the white-blue light covers the two of them for a while before diminishing. Ozai's earth mounds fall apart and he drops to the ground. Aang staggers briefly before standing up straight. Cut to an area behind Aang looking at Ozai as he struggles to sit up and thrusts his hand out but nothing happens and he falls back to the ground.)
Ozai:  What...what did you do to me?
Aang: I took away your firebending. You can't use it to hurt or threaten anyone else ever again.
Act III
Sokka: You did it! You should have seen yourself, it was amazing!  You were all like,  "pshoom, pfoom, pfoom, phish, whoom", and then the Fire Lord was all like,  "eugh, eh, eh, eh, eugh, aye".
Suki: So, did you...  you know...finish the job?
Ozai:  I'm still alive.
Aang: I learned there was another way to defeat him and restore balance. I took his bending away.
Toph:  Wow, who taught you that?
Aang:  A giant Lion Turtle.
Toph: You have the craziest adventures when you disappear.
Sokka:  Well, look at you buster. Now that your firebending is gone, I guess we should call you the "Loser Lord".
Ozai:  I am the Phoenix King!
Toph: Oh sorry, didn't mean to offend you "Phoenix King of  Getting His Butt Whupped."
Suki:  Yeah, or how about "King of the Guys Who... Don't Win"
Toph:  Leave the nicknames to us  honey.
(Cut to a shot above the pillars looking at sky as the comet slowly flies off into the horizon. The comet leaves Earth and the red sky fades to night.
Cut to an overhead shot of the crater in the Fire Nation capital the next day. Camera pans across the roofs of some houses singed and destroyed during Zuko and Azula's Agni Kai. Cut to Zuko in his room standing near the windows as the morning sunlight streams in. He puts on his outer robe. Cut to a close of Zuko with a bandaged torso as he moans and struggles to put his arm through the robe's sleeve.)
Mai: You need some help with that?
Zuko:  Mai!  You're ok.  They let you out of prison?
Mai: My uncle  pulled some strings,  and it doesn't hurt when the new Fire Lord is your boyfriend. 
Zuko: So does this mean you don't hate me anymore?
Mai:  I think it means...  I actually  kind of like you.  But don't ever  break up  with me again.
(She jabs her finger into Zuko's shoulder one last time and Zuko smiles goofily. They embrace and the camera zooms out slowly.
Cut to an overhead shot of the coronation plaza. A crowd has gathered in front of the coronation platform. Cut to The Duke embracing Toph with Pipsqueak, Hippo and The Boulder looking on. Camera pans to the left to show Haru with his father. Camera pans some more to show the swamp benders. They part as the Water Tribe siblings walk past them and look around the crowd. Sokka is using a crutch to support his injured leg. They walk closer to the camera.)
Sokka:Dad!
Katara: Dad!
Hakoda: I heard what you two did.  I am the proudest father in the world.  And your mother  would be proud too.
Sokka:  There's my favorite warriors. I have to admit,  I kind of missed the face paint. How does it feel to be back in uniform again 
Ty Lee: It feels great!
Sokka:  Careful Suki! Ty Lee is pretending to be a Kyoshi Warrior again.
Suki: It's ok.  She's one of us now. 
Ty Lee: Yeah, the girls and I  really bonded in prison.  And after a few Chi blocking lessons, they said I could join their group.  We're going to be  best friends forever.
(Ty Lee smiles widely and the 2 warriors smile albeit hesitantly. Cut to the end of a corridor inside the coronation building as Zuko in his new Fire Lord outfit walking towards Aang in orange sitting beside the door.
Cut to a close up of Aang meditating. He has worn his new monk robes and a necklace similar to Monk Gyatso's. Cut to a side shot of Aang as Zuko stops in front of the curtains and addresses him.)
Zuko: I can't believe a year ago my purpose in life was hunting you down, and now...
Aang:  And now we're friends.
Zuko: Yeah...we are friends. 
Aang: I can't believe a year ago  I was still frozen in a block of ice. The World's so different now.
Zuko:  And it's gonna be even more different, when we build it together.
Zuko: Please, the real hero  is the Avatar.
Zuko: Today, this war is finally over. (Cut to Haru, Tyro,
Teo and The Mechanist as they smile and the Fire Nation citizens behind them cheer) I promised  my Uncle that I would restore the honor of the Fire Nation, and I will.  The road ahead of us is challenging. A hundred years of fighting has left the world scarred and divided.  But with the Avatar's help, we can get it back on the  right path, and begin a new era of love and peace.
Fire Sage: All hail  Fire Lord Zuko!
(The crowd cheers and Zuko lifts his head up as the Fire Sage dismisses himself, keeping his head bowed. Zuko stands up and walks towards the camera. Cut to an overhead shot of the crowd as Zuko enters the screen and gestures Aang to join him. The Avatar enters the screen a split second later and they pose at the top of the steps. They look at each other briefly before looking back at the crowd.
Cut to Zuko walking alone on the rocky path leading to the crater in the Fire Nation capital. Fade to the outer cordon of the prison tower as Zuko makes his way in. Fade to Zuko walking along the corridor inside the prison and pauses outside a door for a second before pushing it. Cut to the inside of the door as it opens to reveal Zuko's face and he walks towards the camera. Cut to a disheveled Ozai in rags leaning against the wall of his cell as Zuko's footsteps grows louder. Cut to a close up of Ozai's face as his eyes glance to the side at the shadow.)
Ozai: I should count myself lucky.  The new Fire Lord has graced me with his presence in my lonely prison cell.
Zuko:You should count yourself lucky that the Avatar spared your life.  Banishing me was the best thing you could have done for my life.  It put me on the right path; perhaps your time in here can do the same for you.
Ozai:  Why are you really here?
Zuko:  Because you are gong to tell me something.  Where is my mother?
(Cut to the Earth Kingdom symbol on the inner wall of Ba Sing Se. Camera pans up to show an overhead view of the Lower Ring. A sungi horn plays. Cut to the Fire Nation tanks Bumi stacked with an Earth Kingdom flag planted right at the top. A ball enters the screen. Camera pans out to show 2 boys on opposite sides of the tank structure passing the ball to and fro with earthbending. Another boy runs into screen, giggling. Cut to an overhead view of Appa outside Iroh's tea shop.
Cut to Iroh wearing his tea shop outfit playing the sungi horn inside the shop with Appa looking at him through the window. Camera pans to the left slightly and a hand places a tea cup on the table. Cut to Zuko in his tea shop outfit smiling and walking off screen. Camera pans out to show Toph resting her feet on the table in her new Earth Kingdom outfit as she accepts the cup from Zuko who goes around serving tea to everyone on a tray. Aang sits in front of the table manipulating a ball of air up and down as Momo tries to grab it. He is wearing his new monk robes from the coronation scene.
Camera pans further to the left to show Sokka in the foreground writing something with a calligraphy brush and Mai and Suki are playing a game of Pai Sho in the background with Katara looking on. All of them are wearing Earth
Kingdom outfits. Zuko walks towards the game table and Katara picks up a tea cup from the tray.)
Sokka: Zuko, stop moving!  I'm trying to capture the moment.  I wanted  to do a painting, so we always remember the good times together. 
Katara: That's very thoughtful of you Sokka.  Wait!  Why did you give me Momo's ears?
Sokka:  Those are your hair loopies.
Zuko: At least you don't look like a boarcupine.  My hair's not that spiky!
Mai:  I look like a man.
Suki: And why did you paint me firebending?
Sokka:  I thought it looked more exciting that way.
Sokka: Oh, you  think you can do a better job, Momo?
Iroh: Hey,  my belly's not that big anymore,  I've really trimmed down.
Toph: Well, I think  you all look perfect!
(Everyone laughs. Cut to an area in front of the shop looking at a panoramic view of Ba Sing Se at dusk. Aang pauses in front of a railing. Cut to Aang as the camera pans up and moves to the right to reveal Katara walking towards him. Cut to a close up side shot of Katara with a pink flower in her hair as the camera follows her. She pauses at the railing and looks at Aang. He turns his head towards her. Cut to a close up of a blushing Katara.
Cut to a slight overhead frontal shot of both of them as Katara places a hand on Aang's shoulder and they embrace. Cut to a close up of Aang as he opens his eyes. Cut to a smiling Katara. Cut back to the area in front of the shop as they part and look at the sunset. Camera slowly zooms out. Cut to the window of Iroh's tea shop as a string instrument plays in the background. Katara's head enters the screen. Aang enters the screen and smiles at Katara. Katara leans in for a kiss and Aang deepens it.
Cut to a side shot of them as they continue to kiss. Camera zooms in on them and slowly pans up towards the orange and purple sky. Chinese words for "The End" appear on screen followed shortly by the English equivalent at the bottom. The background slowly fades to white and engulfs the words.)