 + 
Bad Boy baby 
We the last standin' check the records 
Check the score
Da Band the next generation of bad motherfucker, come on 
 + 
Yo, I'm back and I'm hittin' 'em hard
Tits don't sag, I dont need no push-up bra 
Bitch you mad, Babs got a brand new car 
Drop top in the hood, I'm the ghetto superstar 
Breathe, pop bottles and roll up weed 
Bab's strong arm bitches, like I'm Hercules
You got a problem , come see the girl, I'll solve'em 
Big belly bitches we starve 'em 
Niggas in the hood, we rob 'em, whenever they flossin'
Better tuck in ya chain bitch and keep on walkin' 
You a thug, why you keep on talkin , let's get it crackin' 
Get a bitch stomped out in the club, I make it happen
I got this, Diddy done let me out 
Hot chick, spit sick when I open my mouth 
My year, now so you girls betta leave 
Me and my people comin' and we rollin' six deep 
All I hear is Bad Boy this, and Bad Boy that
This Bad Boy will beat you down, wit a baseball bat
 + 
I'ma changed man, since I made the band
Nobody, gave a damn, no one gave a hand 
Made man, made the band, wave ya hands
Rocks in the watch, I think I'm bout to blaze the band 
Elliot Ness, you know I'm here to save the land
Don't try to lie and say the liquor is what made you ran 
Go somewhere, and be a maintnence man, a janitor
Dog don't blame me, blame ya manager
Keep ya hands out my pockets nigga
Franchise like I play for the Rockets nigga
+Who Shot Ya+, +Biggie Smalls+, 2Pac ya nigga 
"Ready to Die", "All Eyes" on the project nigga 
You stocky, I put somethin' in ya biceps niggas
I can't help it, I'm a violent nigga, silence
You fuckin wit the wildest nigga
That chain, fugazy, you ain't stylin' nigga
All I hear is Bad Boy this, and Bad Boy that
This Bad Boy will beat you down wit a baseball bat
 + 
There he go, hoppin' out the G5 Wagon
G-coated, Ree's, Baud's and Tee's swaggin' 
Runnin' game on ya bitch, ya boy's a pimp
I need a bitch wit no type of common sense, that about it 
If you bout it then throw it up
Got that fire and you ready to light it, then tote it up
Now that's gangsta, don't make me spank ya
You, run in that water now ya life is in danger 
Ride wit the underworld, that keep bangers
Niggas that be off that frail, them beef bringers 
Picture a nigga tryin' to carry me
It won't happen, I won't let you niggas worry me 
I'ma stay thugged out til they bury me 
When they do, I can't wait to see Barry B
I'ma Dirty South nigga from the dirty streets
Get crunk, get buck, get the fuck off ya feet
All I hear is Bad Boy this and Bad Boy that
Bad Boy will beat you down wit a baseball bat because
 + 
Best believe these dudes ain't never kill nuthin' 
I'm Fred, you want him dead, put some bullets in his coffin
Lord forgive me, but these niggas is playin' wit the boss man 
You don't wanna get in the trunk, you gettin tossed in 
I'm the type you squeeze tight, and you bring your cousin' 
Man homeboy that's y'all man 
Man I got it all planned, Diddy fathered the game 
I'm +Bad+, but not a +Boy+, I got a part of his name 
And homie, I see you slippin', then it's off wit ya chain
Yo head, harder than wood then I'm sawin' yo brain 
A Don, I mean what I say, and I say what I mean 
I eat, shit, and sleep yeah, I lay wit them things 
Bad Boy wit Universal, so don't play wit the team
   Bad Boy, so don't play wit the team 
 Bad Boy, so don't play wit the team 
          Bad Boy, so don't play wit the team 
 Da Band, Da Band
 Da Band, 2003
 Fire! Fire!
 Too Hot For T.V
 Too hot to hold in the headphones this time
 Too hot to hold to cold to fold, come on, and now
 Give my man Diddy the throne, and don't play wit the king
 I'm here baby! Miami! Choppa City! Babs! Sara! Dylan! Ness!
 Fire! yeah
 And we won't stop
 Da Band, fire!
 Yeah!