Pluto, yeah, yeah 
Bought a drop-top Porsche, about to cut the top off
Trappin' is a sport young nigga get you knocked off
Hol' up
Turbo switchin' lanes , Hublot switch your watch 
Trappin' switch the spots , when you're runnin' hot
Feet on the gas  trappin' them bags 
Run up a sack  and never look back 
Shorty got miles on her , I'm about to spaz in it 
I ran it up fast , I ran it up fast 
I ran it up fast , I ran it up fast 
I ran it up fast , I ran it up fast 
I secure the bag first , I'm ready to boast 
I secure the bag first, I'm full of that dope 
Courtside with a mink, yah, Pee Wee Kirkland in the sink 
Five karats, one link , both hands full of ink 
Money drying in your hand , wrap the bale in Saran 
My yellow bitch want a tan, I just landed from Japan 
Tokyo and Korea , Panamera to the Lear 
Yellow mellow with the gold , fishscale with these hoes 
Mossberg, I'm drinkin' mud , put a hit out on a dub 
Bought my lil' nigga 12 slugs , just to shine bright when he mug 
I just bailed out ol' Buice , 20 pills goin' hyphy 
Oh you lookin' real icy , boy you know you nothin' like me
Turbo switchin' lanes , Hublot switch your watch 
Trappin' switch the spots , when you're runnin' hot
Feet on the gas  trappin' them bags 
Run up a sack  and never look back 
Shorty got miles on her , I'm about to spaz in it 
I ran it up fast , I ran it up fast 
I ran it up fast , I ran it up fast 
I ran it up fast , I ran it up fast 
I gave her the raw lean
They sound like my offsprings 
Nitro gasoline 
Bought some more money machines 
Bring out a brand new machine 
I bought a whole lot of bling 
Treat me like Weezy and Baby 
Treat me like Mannie and Turky 
I was the Juve with work on me 
I had to cop it and purchase 
I put more ice in the Date today 
Rockin' these Prezzies and Cartier 
I got it in flooded and plain Jane 
I made my young niggas insane 
Crunchin' them Xans up and then drink 
Get you a Draco and then crank it 
Saudi Arabian, Ben Franklin 
Leave it to me, they would've been stained 'em 
Saditty in back, we done got acquainted 
You see the dash? They gotta see me 
I ran it up fast, they can't see me 
I wasn't surfin' with you 
I buy them Birkins for you 
I go to surgery with you 
Turbo switchin' lanes , Hublot switch your watch 
Trappin' switch the spots , when you're runnin' hot
Feet on the gas  trappin' them bags 
Run up a sack  and never look back 
Shorty got miles on her , I'm about to spaz in it 
I ran it up fast , I ran it up fast 
I ran it up fast , I ran it up fast 
I ran it up fast , I ran it up fast 
Hahahahaha, ahhh, shit!
Got it all back, baby
God damn, welcome to Cap City Records internet podcast, baby
Where we make dreams come true
The first five callers that call in right now, man
We gone have you the rapper starter kit
Oh my God, it comes with the Cap City contract
Which is a twelve album, nine year deal
We gone take some calls, the counting in boards are lighting up right now
The boards are lightin' up
Look, take a call, we up, caller?
Yeah, that deal, we need that
Yeah, we need that, yeah, yeah
Yeah, we need that shit, dat way, nigga, yeah! 
Yeah, nigga
This way, nigga! Yeah!
We need that deal, nigga
What? What you say, young man?
I keep it on me
Hold on, fella! Hold on, fella 
Listen, li-
Boom, nigga
I'm sayin', I can't hear you, shoot
Is, is there a shoot out?
What's goin' on, young fella?
Lil' Draco in this bitch
Lil' Extendo in this bitch, Lil' Extendo, yeah, yeah
Nigga, yeah 
What's goin' on, nigga?
You just won a Cap City Records contract, man
Listen here, baby
Lil' Draco! Lil' Extendo! Congratulations, baby, y'all won
Yeah, nigga, yeah, hahaha
Cap City, man, what's up
Six months, man, we got that shit
Twelve albums, man, we got that shit
Yeah nigga, yeah
I'm finna shoot everything up
Bow, bow, bow, bow, bow
Nigga, yeah, yeah, what's up nigga, yeah, yeah, I need that
We need that 