So your pops ask, "Why you always battlin' gay chicks?"
Why he share rooms with Norbes on vacation? That's gay shit
Why is every battle rapper in here, he on they dick
Why he look like a fake Flo Rida that take dick?
Tell ya pops to chill or he won't remember how it got so real
He'll just wake up, to a Jaz face cause the doc's like, "Eww"
Massive trauma, even the doc will need Dr. Phil
And I hope ya mama catch a heart attack when she see the doctor bill
We here today for the homecoming of Jaz, y'all
5-9-15, the day that she passed on
Philando Castile: a livestream body, it was sad, y'all
And all because you had words with O'fficial: bad call
Y'all forgot how Jaz died? It's cool...I'mma remind you
I was a witness, up close, I was standin' behind Mook
Watchin' ya death, sick 'cause I had a good time, too
And your soul rose...then O took it back to the bayou!
My God bless, there's no need to worry since you deceased already
They just brought your body to Brooklyn for me to bury
You tried to explain ya death, I was like, "Stop it with the Tweets already."
After O'fficial fucked ya night up, you was Ayesha Curry
Matter fact, your new name should be Nicole, J
Everybody knows that you was murdered by O, J
I was rootin' for you, but you was losin' the whole way
You was climbin' the Stairway To Heaven like the OJays
Now you hate the big stage cause it was awful for ya
It was total slaughter in front of niggas from Total Slaughter
Queenzflip wasn't no help, he was for the torture
How me made you hit that water, he tried to waterboard ya
Tonight 'bout to be a repeat, this the encore
I ain't want to, but I had to do it like job chores
You been in battles, but not with bitches that's hardcore
You won't survive this PTSD from Hart's War
Fuck y'all thought? She'll 3-0 me? That's real ill
You was dick-ridin', my first battle here and I kill still
That was back, when watchin' Smack gave me that real feel
But now you lettin' geeks on the stage...what's the real deal?
I'll teach ya, better watch yo grammar, I'm thoroughbred
I'm first period, I don't care what the schedule read
Room full of dum dums, that's code word for Special Ed'
If arms raise you better dip low ma, protect yo' head and get it straight
I'ma Regulate, if we warring  G, I'll finger pop one in you fucked, have a menage wit me
Two guns, that'll sing to you, meet R&B
Not one Bone's Thug in  you don't speak on harmin' me 
I don't wanna hear no gun talk, you ain't tough or bad
If I scream ya jaw prolly break, it's fuckin' glass
One wrong word outta ya mouth, watch me up and spazz
Buck fifty across ya face, let's cut the Jaz
What this Bronx vs BK? Well we created this
The famous words of Kris, but tonight, Brooklyn ain't takin' shit
I'll catch you on the day you was born and take ya gifts
I mean, I'll fuck up ya Foundation before you Make A Wish
I made a list of a few reasons you make me sick
You went from dressin' like a Catholic school girl to an atheist
And all these bars aren't yours, you a plagarist
I think of Jaz, I think of onesie, them baby shit
Pump ya breaks, you in a lane that E paved
Hoes will be givin' BJ's if it wasn't for me, J
I mean they barely got respected for bars, then E came
It was me who let these chickens roam: I gave 'em free range
Don't come for me If you ain't comin' wit the steel
You get the whole company and you wasn't in the will
Oh you don't get it? I give bitches the business still
Just one hit, leave bitches drowsy that been the drill 
Don't even grill me, I feel a way
Better control your eyes cause if we take it past words, I'ma override
Baby biscuit I keep for bitches but what I show for guys
It'll take your man for a spin, I chauffeur guys
Yeah she's witty but she ain't fuckin' wit E, she is high
Deaf, dumb and she is blind
Bitch thinkin' she is seein' I  on guard dawg, if I flip think coin toss cause she a fly
Pick heads or tails, bitch you landin' on either side
So rap or either ride, which one are you gon' do?
Y'all witnessin' ether live
Today J is gon' lose, we could've been the main event in the ring, this was the wrong move
I'm claustrophobic, heart/Hart start beatin' in small room
Don't compare me to these hoes, I get mad offended
I kill these niggas, most of 'em just have aggression
I thought y'all knew, but y'all niggas keep askin' questions
They brought another youngin' so round 2, I'ma add a lesson 
If y'all don't remember how I does this, good I'ma remind you
It's been almost two years since I been here, I had an uhhhh time too
But if you loved me last time, tonight? I'm that times two
I work on my timing to address bullshit when it's time to
First off, O'fficial did not "kill me", so y'all can stop the hatin'
It was just the first time a bitch fought back so it shocked the nation
Now they say I ain't hot no more, so I'm like a doctor waitin'
'Cause if I gotta take Hart  out to get a buzz, let's play Operation!
I was barely gettin' reaction, shit was crazy, it was wild
But now I know, if I wanna make a room blow up then I'll cater  to the crowd
So y'all want the me that battled 40?
Fuck it, they get that cold Jaz
So this Stockton and Malone on a pick and roll: this the old Jaz 
I left my keys with my purse from yesterday, I'm in my old bag
Flow out this world, I'm moonwalkin' but she gon' get her soul  dragged
Then you got your Remy locks in, hair all did like it's ya biggest day
They offered $1,800 to kill her, I said, "Up that price then we can play."
We the absolute best, these chicks ain't effin' close we had to see this day
Cause the only match to see who's Crown Royal is E&J
But I got my clout by killin' favorites
While you was busy havin' debatables
And even when you do lose, you got a bias league that you gettin' catered to
Cause versus Ms. Fit, you asked Debo to edit a choke to see you ain't get cooked, never
I remember, you battled that bitch from Cor' set  you was pullin' strings to make that body look better
My hook better, but how old are you? I'm sure we all on the same page
Cause I'm thinkin', you Lux, ICE, Smack, Swave 'bout the same age
And that's old, so you get Ric Flair respect, like you a great one?
Nah, this old bitch top gon' get lifted in the ring: she more like Mae Young
My hitters always on deck, I make sure I'm sendin' the goons
For Shayna and QB, them niggas was grippin' the tools
Hustle, 40, O'fficial? They was ready to give them bitches the blues
Oh and  Hart, I got a sharp shooter to do a finishin' move
If you ain't notice the vet's back, you never died and I respect that
But this star was molded to kill you in the ring: Celebrity Deathmatch
If we argue, I'll take half her face off, I'm on that stabbin' shit
{blows} Then the other side just because like devil's advocate
Peep, punches got her weak, ready to sleep, knees wobblin'
Where I learnt that? None of your business, but E's droppin'
I'm so smooth I'm too butter, they just frontin' cause ya crew love ya
They said you gon' talk to me, well who dis? I got a new number
Who think she got it cause I'm the good girl and she too gutta
Spare me the bull, cause when you stay in your lane you ain't worried 'bout them two gutters
And let me tell y'all, she not even pussy she 'gina
But when 40 called her daughter a monkey she was like, "Watch ya mouth. Watch ya m-" Oh I get it
The key to get her out of tune is E minor
But speakin' of your daughter, who the fuck got you pregnant?
Serious question, that's not somethin' we disregard like that
In order for one to cum, one must be erect
And lookin' at you, how a nigga dick get hard like that?
You look like a single mother and a single father, your daughter gon' grow up scarred like that
And I need these answers so second round I'mma bring them bars right back
But wait, wait, wait, wait..."cock the Dezzi, Jaz you can stop already
Pop a gun, you're too afraid to even pop ya cherry"
Y'all be countin' the days down!
Well, my cherry got popped, so what these bitches gon' say now!?
I'm killin' every bitch they say is the best
Who they gon' send next?
I done bodied a gang of hoes they gotta send sets
You'll lift off a ground level, get decked
Nike to the bottom of your face, come get your chin checked
Things happen, she be rappin', I'm in the streets my Mobb Deep we see a Prodigy and wreck Havoc
Apologies, it's been a minute since y'all see E snappin'
I'm back on Smack, six years later I'm relapsin'
They say "keep it rap" I say, "As long as the bag is straight she still gettin'
That ass whooped and dragged today."
Peep how, it can get too real, they brought the mass to bate , now this gon' be a quickie, then after watch E jack you late 
Don't let me hear you gettin' money, do it secretly
Or click clack like a Kit Kat, share a piece wit me
For half I quarter  wit the pound, don't try to beef wit me
Or you could die over weight ; that obesity
You never held heat and that's fact nigga
I got options, the nine named "West" and I call my MAC "Miller"
The deuce-deuce when I  roam that's Jack Thriller
The revolver be spittin' kind of slow so I'm callin' that "Chilla"
I made the cockiest bitches quiet down
What's in my Arsonal? Left O' red  with one sniper round
They talk behind my back, they be quiet when I'm around
See me with Debo, but I Debo bitches, now how that sound?
Like what's that shit you like to talk on-line?
Now say it, don't act like you don't know what I mean, I'm file savin'
I'll leave an imprint on Jaz I'm Miles Davis
You don't get your point across in eight seconds you gettin' violated
You don't like me? Cool, as long as you respect me, fine
You discredit me you lyin' , it must be pride
They even tried sendin' a man in to see me die
I'm a Giant in New York they don't wanna see E lie 
Got a short temper, that's midget rage, the fifth will raise
It's crazy I'll let it ring if you get engaged
We a Dizaster in Daylyt if we get the fade
For thinkin' she was good here they gon have to get her lemonaid
You got killers, you better get all you can get
I know cut throats that'll cut throats it's off wit ya neck
If you text me wrong, these joints will autocorrect
You'll think the gun got Wi-Fi the way the auto connect
I said I'm all on your steps, kick in the door so you know it's real
Play possum, cause if you turn  it'll be overkill
Well I hope she got protection in the house, she ain't holdin' steel
Bullets blew 'cross  the crib she should've had the slogan shield
I'm so for real, point at the target I got the best aim
Especially if it's green on the top like the Jets game
Remember Martin? That episode when the new bed came?
Paramedics gon' find Gina head in the bed frame
It's 'bout time, been five years you been dodgin' me
Now it's no bitches left, you can't hide from me
I'm in that bag, gettin' all in that ass, it's a colostomy
You get these bars, like I wrote for a nigga that's E quality 
I catch Jaz wherever she at like, "This block is mine"
Hit her with nine and then walk away like I copped a dime
Just cause you got Hart don't mean you got heart, you are not that live
You got good credit, applied for hood credit and got denied
I may smile around you bitches but really I got cruel ways
You would've got stuffed in the locked back in my school days
Cause my Mama Said, "Knock You Out" if you played
And you'll be takin' these back to back L's, better be Cool J
Get your folk, I'm uncontrollable if provoked
Shit can start to go downhill like, "Let's hit the slopes"
You be wit clowns that get hit and scream, "It's a joke"
What's not funny is the Aftermath if I get her in the scope 
Get it poppin', I give it up like "it's forgotten"
We questionin' if you thotin' but that's a different topic
The K low, next to one tray that's Tristan Thompson
They want you to disrespect yo' jaw, they ain't miss the problem
Compare me to these hoes I get mad offended
I kill these niggas cause most of 'em just have aggression
I thought y'all knew but y'all niggas keep askin' questions
They brought another youngin' so round three I'ma add a lesson 
I ain't even take this battle for me y'all, I did this one for the fans
They like, "Finally, Jaz is goin' toe to toe with a man."
They told me to be scared cause you can fight
But what that mean? I don't understand
R.I.P. Bill Nunn cause he showed you can still die even if you known for the hands
We could've did this in Houston, Cali, anywhere
Y'all was buryin' a body of course
That asked, "Apple or 'Manan?" I said, "It don't matter I'm still gonna make E lie  in New York."
I'll have her throwin' up on hospital sheets
Vomit stankin', pulse fadin', breath faint and the organs need savin'
Who know a transplant surgeon? Tell him he's got a patient
Cause now they gotta give a heart to Hart like a deep conversation
But who the fuck got you pregnant? Serious question, I'm up here gettin' stressed
Cause I mean, I look like Th3 Saga but you look like struggle mixed with Chess
And that's a diss to Chess, so I'm sorry my nigga
But I hate that one tooth and your lips
You're the bitch a nigga won't take one for the team for; you a forfeit
Ayo Smack, I feel like these bitches be usin' me
I get on the world's biggest stage and don't even get a thank you, you see how they be doin' me?
But I could tell you jealous baby girl, see you be feelin' left out
You came here six years ago, got no call back and you were stressed out
Some of us been here two, three even four times
He let you in once and you was kept out
Oh it's not clickin'? You mad, but you got treated like an internet ad
Cause you popped up on URL just to get X'ed out
They told me chill Jaz! She caught a gun charge at 13
So?! She 53 now, what type of shit that's provin'?
I'ma do it like Ezel and  smoke E when I tell
Everybody 'bout the shit she doin'
Cause Erica ain't even G
I had my nigga run up on her and she just passed the cake
He took her phone then took jewel then she didn't even clap the eight
What y'all don't get it? I even got Smack like, "Wait."
What I'm sayin' is, she ain't bust soft when I got E jacked you laid 
Oh your man's mad? Well I hit niggas too
My hands got no preference think Will Smith and Caitlyn Jenner
Cause when I swing it's for both sexes
First dude I smack, the second I'ma choke him to death
Then steal on the last nigga, I ain't over my ex
Now the beef can unravel
I grab the jimmy and that bar go over ya head like at the battles
So try somethin', cause I'm huntin'
You got beef? I invite myself to the cookout like, "Hi cousin."
Blade out, so I'm cuttin'
Stickin' out her side gushin'
I could see she was fucked through the clothes that's dry humpin'
Guts out, she tryin' to catch 'em
But they fallin' so she fumblin'
Now Eric have to pick it up like K-Shine when he stumblin'
And oh yeah, you used to like Cortez, right?
Why y'all ain't date? You thought I'd be better for the sport?
Bitch please, you wanna bounce his balls and slob on it, she tryin to dribble on Cort' 
But you should've smashed sis' and made a sex tape, y'all would've never got caught
Cause we all know that video would probably end up in the vault
And I seen your battles all them bitches seem to say the same stuff
Just know, with a name like E Hart, in every way possible I'm 'bout to fuck ya name up
So guard your grill, cause I could snap at any moment
You my enemy, think I won't snuff you in your face?
Wrong person, you got me mistaken, I dent an E 
I got a quick plan, she gon' get a Chin punched, I'm a Jin fan
I was walkin' 'round lookin' for Hart , I'm the Tin Man
And if ya boyfriend witchu, I might get that sucka bagged
You get half the clip, but if your jaw start poppin', Hart lock it 
Or your other half get the other half
Then after the battle I smile at her and be kind, trick everybody
Have 'em thinkin' that we fine
Then grab the little nine once I find out where she hide
As soon as I got the T on her, I had the baby by Emond
Time
Round 3, no entertainin', it's real shit
If I ain't talk to the youth, I wouldn't be a real bitch
But they don't listen, fuck droppin' jewels I'ma talk real slick
And who better to talk to Magenta, real quick
On my life, I love battle rap I can't get enough of it
But now it's too many rappers, on some crabs in a bucket shit
What kills me? Most of these niggas ain't cut for it
What kills me more is every battle I see, you be up in it
You are battle raps groupie, you be in every nigga's state
Up on every nigga's stage and in every nigga's face
You study every nigga's style and what takes the cake
You do that fuckin' gas face like every nigga's great
You been to more URL battles than Smack
Say I'm a liar, see Smack skip a PG but you can come find a dick ridin'
Niggas that be aight, she swear "Son fire"
She be behind niggas, holdin' they balls like an umpire
Both parents, that's somethin' a lot ain't have
But battle rap is ya masters your associates got the mag
You want a bachelor? You could've had your bachelors
Pops is sad, he went from bein' like a soccer dad to watchin' you cut your tops in half
This thot loose off of thot juice
Rumors I heard before said you fuckin' with the meat now
You not an herbivore
On a nigga name; Pauly D; bein' a flirty whore
J wild, did you lose your virginity out in Jersey, sure 
Did Debo really take bread from you? Cause you mentioned that, if so
My next question is, did you get it back cause me, I couldn't live with that
I would've ran up on Debo that Next Friday wit the strap
Like, "Pops trippin'. Remember that bread from the other night?"
You say, "What money?" I say, "My money. Nigga I'm standin' up tonight."
You win some and you lose some and you'se fuckin' right
BAOW! Debo wouldn't had made it to see another fight
You left them? But y'all still cool? The nerve of shorty
Thinkin' Smack ain't never claimed you, now you hurtin' shorty
It's ironic, you died homeless, that's word to 40
Now ya soul just gotta suffer here, you in purgatory
You took a while off, came back kind of rowdy
Told y'all Magenta needed Hart to live again
There's no you without me now you gettin'
Put under dawg for tryin' to doubt me
You should quit it, bitch is lookin' like Ronda Rousey
Why are you here? I can tell around G's you are not comfy
I got so many goons in the buildin' it's not funny
I school bitches, especially school bitches, I'm gully
I'll leave your body plain  in the Hudson, I'm Sully
I said who bet bread? I don't know why y'all would bother nigga
We on Smack we already know who's harder nigga
You rap 'bout goin' nuts like George Washington Carver nigga
My boy George accept Washingtons to carve a nigga
Don't compare me to these hoes I get mad offended
I kill these nigga-y'all know the rest
I was scrollin' Twitter one day, right
And I saw a link that said, "E Hart says Jaz is overrated." I had to click that
You had the nerve to utter out your black ass mouth, that I'm not elite
But you are?
I'm 'bout to go down our resume and spit facts
We both battled Chayna and Hustle, who gave them controversial chokes? I did that
We both battled 40, who changed the game when they did? I did that
You battled O'fficial in front of Snoop Dogg, but who gave her her biggest look? I did that
So I'm not elite? I don't get that
Cause every single big match you have that I did too, mine had way more of an impact
But I ain't mad though, you can try and downplay me like I'm weak if you want
I say forget a hater, defibrillator, it was clear that I get heartbeat  from the jump
I'm back Smack!
O did me like Ricky Baker and I got my back clapped so this is the clap back
Cause now I'm hungry
And for a bitch that wasn't eatin', this order  bring that hunger back
Believe me a  a feast gon' come, I'll hold it down, won't throw up from that
I'm past sick, ain't no gas trick , they just love the raps
Them last chicks, I wrecked 'em  and testin'  my shit? You can't stomach that
They said you was winnin', cause you got bars, delivery and you believable and that's a triple threat
Bitch I will stab you three times, that's my triple threat
That's cause I'm very mental, it's detrimental
I'll kill your daughter then you'll die right after her; Debbie Reynolds
Head shot, but it just missed it, grazed her and knocked her nose off
Y'all mama ever hit y'all phone from the next room? Yeah, it was a close call
I'm on your heels, nothin' gon stop you from gettin' bars today
Ain't No Mountain High Enough, Let's Get It On; Marvin Gaye
This don't feel like a scrimmage do it?
Them other broads come to spar and play
See they just test ya pen E , come play with Magic
I'm the one on point to take Hart away 
But the fans been waitin' for this cause they said you on the throne  and I'm kinda mad at that
A queen's supposed to be the most piece on the board, right? So I gotta laugh at that
Cause I said we doin' this on Smack and where we at?
Bitch you followed me wherever I go
You asked them for a certain price I said, "no", and where we at?
You was frontin' bitch, ya numbers is low
You wanted the big stage, I wanted the small, and where we at?
Y'all ain't peep? I got my hands dug in her soul
Cause how I move, she move, keep it cool, I got E motions  under control
Ain't nobody come to see you Otis?
They came for me bitch, I got the juice
How ironic, that if Hart  wanna keep gettin' seen on cards, she follows suit
Side bar, side bar, I gave these hoes two years to do somethin' while I kick back
And they ain't did shit
Well...Bonnie had 32 battles...that we don't give a fuck about, that bitch wack
This is where quality over quantity kicks in, so I battle at my pace
Who y'all want me to face?
I'ma school 'em, they my students, I'll pop E then those pupils die late 
But who the fuck got you pregnant? Serious question now, I'm not even rappin'
Like we all wanna know what's up so...what's the story? What happened?
Oh he used a condom but it broke though?
And when it's time to be a pops he's a no-show
Why that man let you keep it? Oh I know hoe
The first baby mom's always ugly that's the bro code
You taste that? Victory's sweet
Buck 50 they don't know where that cold cut came from; mystery meat
You battled C3 and was okay, so how you gon' make it through me?
You was Michael J Fox at the arc, you was shaky with 3
Then things got heated, cause you brought her father up, but where your dad at?
He support you? Cause mine do, he right here and that's fact
Hold on shorty, hold on, hold on
You mean to tell me, you wasn't doin' none of your chores
I was doin' all your errands and you was preppin' for this shit?
Erica Hart? I went to high school wit this bitch
You battled C3 and brought her father up, but where your dad at?
He support you? Cause mine do, he right here and that's facts
Hold on shorty, hold on
That wasn't nice what you said about me and Norbes
That wasn't nice
While you wasn't do your chores, runnin' all your errands
And you was preppin' for this shit?
Erica Hart? I went to high school wit this bitch
So what you sayin' dad? This your mans? Cause if you tell me "chill" then I'll fall back
Ayo, no disrespect to mom but would you hit that?
Hell yeah!...With a baseball bat!
I'm from Brooklyn!
You thought you was just gon' dust yo' feet in the crib?
Shit can get real love, you gon' be the next Yonkers bitch to get a feature with BIG
I asked my father, he said, "Get her or I'ma get her."
So I think I got a beat now
I'm done studyin' Hart  pace meet me at the finish line
I bet she get nervous if me and Hart  race
You battled 12 months ago, so we reminisced on the old times durin' Hart break 
And now her battle price 'bout to go down
Cause she dyin' and that effect Hart  rate
Time