Here beginnes Morte Arthure. In Nomine Patris et Filii et Spiritus Sancti. Amen pur Charite. Amen.
Now grete glorious God   through grace of Himselven           great
And the precious prayer   of his pris Moder           excellent
Sheld us fro shamesdeede   and sinful workes           shameful deeds
And give us grace to guie   and govern us here           guide
In this wretched world   through virtuous living,
That we may kaire til his court,   the kingdom of heven           go to
When our soules shall part   and sunder fro the body           from
Ever to beld and to bide   in bliss with Himselven;           dwell; abide
And wisse me to warp out   some word at this time           teach; utter
That nother void be ne vain   but worship til Himselven           neither; honour
Plesand and profitable   to the pople that them heres.           Pleasing; people; hear
Ye that lust has to lithe   or loves for to here           desire; listen
Of elders of olde time   and of their awke deedes,           strange
How they were lele in their law   and loved God Almighty           loyal; religion
Herkenes me hendely   and holdes you stille,           Hearken; courteously
And I shall tell you a tale   that trew is and noble           true
Of the real renkes   of the Round Table           royal men
That chef were of chivalry   and cheftains noble           chief; chieftains
Both wary in their workes   and wise men of armes,           skilled
Doughty in their doings   and dredde ay shame,           dreaded always
Kind men and courtais   and couth of court thewes,           courteous; skilled; manners
How they won with war   worshippes many,           honours
Slogh Lucius the lithere   that lord was of Rome,           Slew; wicked
And conquered that kingrik   through craftes of armes;           kingdom
Herkenes now hiderward   and heres this story!           Listen; here; hear
When that the king Arthur   by conquest had wonnen           won
Casteles and kingdomes   and countrees many,           countries
And he had covered the crown   of that kith riche           recovered; country
Of all that Uter in erthe   ought in his time:           Uther; earth; owned
Argayle and Orkney   and all these oute-iles,           outer-isles
Ireland utterly,   as Ocean runnes,           entirely; where the
Scathel Scotland by skill   he skiftes as him likes,           Harmful Scotland with skill he rules as it pleases him
And Wales of war   he won at his will,           by; to
Bothe Flaunders and Fraunce   free til himselven           to
Holland and Hainault   they held of him bothen,           both
Burgoigne and Brabaunt   and Bretain the less           Brittany
Guienne and Gothland   and Grace the rich,           Grasse
Bayonne and Bourdeaux   he belded full fair,           dwelt in
Touraine and Toulouse   with towres full high,           towers
Of Poitiers and Provence   he was prince holden;           considered
Of Valence and Vienne,   of value so noble,
Of Overgne and Anjou,   those erldoms rich,           Auvergne; earldoms
By conquest full cruel   they knew him for lord           acknowledged
Of Navarre and Norway   and Normandy eek           also
Of Almaine, of Estriche,   and other ynow;           Germany; Austria; many others
Denmark he dressed   all by drede of himselven           directed; dread
Fro Swynne unto Swetherwike,   with his sword keen!           From Swynn to Sweden, with his sharp sword
When he these deedes had done, he dubbed his knightes,
Devised ducheries and delt   in diverse rewmes,           Created and gave out dukedoms in diverse realms
Made of his cosins   kinges annointed           relatives
In kithes there they covet   crownes to bere.           countries where; bear
When he these rewmes had ridden   and rewled the pople,           realms; ruled; people
Then rested that real   and held the Round Table;           royal 
Sujourns that seson   to solace himselven           Sojourns; season
In Bretain the brodder, as him best likes;           Great Britain; pleases
Sithen went into Wales   with his wyes all,           Then; men
Sways into Swaldie   with his snell houndes           Moves; South Wales; swift
For to hunt at the hartes   in those high landes,           stags
In Glamorgan with glee   there gladship was ever,           where gladness
And there a citee he set,   by assent of his lordes           city; established
That Caerlion was called,   with curious walles,
On the rich river   that runnes so fair,           great
There he might semble his sorte   to see when him liked.           Where he might assemble his followers to review when it pleased him
Then after at Carlisle   a Christenmass he holdes,           Christmas
This ilk kidd conquerour   and held him for lord           same famous
With dukes and douspeeres   of diverse rewmes,           high nobles; realms
Erles and erchevesques   and other ynow,           Earls; archbishops
Bishoppes and bachelers   and bannerettes noble
That bowes to his banner,   busk when him likes.           go when it pleases him
But on the Christenmass-day   when they were all sembled,
That comlich conquerour   commaundes himselven           comely
That ilk a lord sholde lenge   and no leve take           each; should remain; leave
To the tende day fully   were taken to the end.           tenth
Thus on real array   he held his Round Table           royal
With semblaunt and solace   and selcouthe metes;           splendour; rare foods
Was never such noblay   in no mannes time           nobleness
Made in mid-winter   in tho West Marches!           those
But on the New-Yere day, at the noon even,           New Year's; exactly
As the bold at the borde   was of bred served,           As the bold men at the table were served with bread
So come in sodenly   a senatour of Rome,           suddenly
With sixteen knightes in a suite,   sewand him one;           company following; alone
He salued the soveraign   and the sale after           saluted; hall
Ilk a king after king,   and made his inclines;           Each; bows
Gaynor in her degree   he grette as him liked           greeted; pleased
And sinn again to the gome   he gave up his needes:           And then  again to the man  and delivered his message
"Sir Lucius Iberius,   the Emperour of Rome,
Salues thee as subjet,   under his sele rich;           Salutes; subject; seal
It is credan, Sir King,   with cruel wordes;           credentials
Trow it for no troufles,   his targe is to shew!           Think it not a trifle, his shield  is to be seen hereon
Now in this New-Yeres Day,   with notaries sign,
I make thee summons in sale   to sew for thy landes,           hall; plead
That on Lamass Day   there be no let founden           August 1; hindrance found
That thou be redy at Rome   with all thy Round Table           ready
Appere in his presence   with thy pris knightes           Appear; excellent
At prime of the day,   in pain of your lives,           first hour; on
In the kidd Capitoil   before the king selven           famous; himself
When he and his senatours   bes set as them likes,           are; it pleases them
To answer only   why thou occupies the landes           alone
That owe homage of old   til him and his elders,           to
Why thou has ridden and raimed   and ransound the pople           robbed; ransomed
And killed down his cosins,   kinges annointed;           kinsmen
There shall thou give reckoning   for all thy Round Table,
Why thou art rebel to Rome   and rentes them with-holdes!           revenue
Yif thou these summons withsit,   he sendes thee these wordes:           If; resist
He shall thee seek over the se,   with sixteen kinges,           sea
Brin Bretain the brode   and britten thy knightes           Burn Britain the broad  and beat down your knights
And bring thee buxomly as a beste   with brethe where him likes,           And with anger bring you compliantly as a beast where he pleases
That thou ne shall route ne rest   under the heven rich           And you shall not sleep nor rest under the great heaven
Though thou for reddour of Rome   run to the erthe!           Though for fear of Rome you run to the earth 
For if thou flee into Fraunce   or Frisland other,           Frisia either
Thou shall be fetched with force   and overset forever!           overthrown
Thy fader made fewtee   we find in our rolles,           father; fealty; records
In the regestré of Rome, who-so right lookes;           registry
Withouten more troufling   the tribute we ask           trifling
That Julius Cesar won   with his gentle knightes!"           noble
The king blushed on the berne   with his brode eyen,           The king looked on the man with his large eyes
That full bremly for brethe   brent as the gledes,           Which burned very fiercely like coals because of  anger
Cast colours as the king   with cruel lates           Turned pale; features
Looked as a lion   and on his lip bites.
The Romanes for radness   rusht to the erthe,           fear; earth
For ferdness of his face   as they fey were;           fear; fated to die
Couched as kennetes   before the king selven;           Crouched like hounds
Because of his countenaunce   confused them seemed!           they seemed
Then covered up a knight   and cried full loud:           got up 
"King, crowned of kind,   courtais and noble,           by nature courteous
Misdo no messanger   for mensk of thyselven,           Harm; honour
Senn we are in thy manrede   and mercy thee beseekes;           Since; power; beseech
We lenge with Sir Lucius,   that lord is of Rome,           belong
That is the marveloustest man   than on molde lenges;           most marvelous; earth
It is lelful til us   his liking til work;           It is loyal  for us to do his pleasure
We come at his commaundment;   have us excused."
Then carpes the conquerour   cruel wordes:           says
"Ha! cravand knight,   a coward thee seemes!           craven; you seem
There is some segge in this sale,   and he were sore greved           There is a certain man in this hall, and he was sorely grieved
Thou durst not for all Lumbardy   look on him ones!"           That you dared not look on him once for all Lombardy 
"Sir," says the senatour,   "so Crist mot me help,           as; may
The vout of thy visage   has wounded us all!           expression
Thou art the lordliest lede   that ever I on looked.           man
By looking, withouten lees,   a lion thee seemes!"           In appearance; lies; you seem
"Thou has me summoned," quod the king,   "and said what thee likes.
For sake of thy soveraign   I suffer thee the more;
Senn I crowned was in kith   with crisom annointed,           Since; country; holy oil
Was never creature to me   that carped so large!           spoke so freely
But I shall take counsel   at kinges annointed           from
Of dukes and douspeeres   and doctours noble,           high noblemen; theologians
Of peeres of the parlement,   prelates and other           parliament
Of the richest renkes   of the Round Table;           most powerful men
Thus shall I take avisement   of valiant bernes,           advice; men
Work after the wit   of my wise knightes.           Do according to
To warp wordes in waste   no worship it were,           utter; honour
Ne wilfully in this wrath   to wreken myselven.           Nor; avenge
Forthy shall thou lenge here   and lodge with these lordes           Therefore; remain
This seven-night in solace   to sujourn your horses,           pleasure; rest
To see what life that we lede   in these low landes."           lead; humble
For by the realtee of Rome,   that richest was ever,           royalty; most powerful
He commaundes Sir Kayous,   "Take keep to those lordes           care of
To stightel tho stern men   as their state askes,           arrange those; requires
That they be herbered in haste   in those high chambres,           lodged; noble
Sithen sittandly in sale   served thereafter,           Then suitably in hall
That they find no faute   of food to their horses,           lack
Nother wine ne wax   ne welth in this erthe;           candles
Spare for no spicery,   but spend what thee likes           Don't save money on spices, but spend what you please
That there be largess on loft   and no lack founden;           generosity prevailing
If thou my worship wait,   wye, by my trewth,           If you guard my honour, man, by my pledged word
Thou shall have gersoms full grete   that gain shall thee ever!"           You shall have very great rewards that will profit you forever
Now are they herbered in high   and in host holden,           Now they are nobly lodged and regarded as guests
Hastily with hende men   within these high walles.           courteous; noble
In chambers with chimpnees   they changen their weedes,           In chambers with chimneys , they change their clothes
And sithen the chaunceller   them fetched with chevalry noble;           then
Soon the senatour was set   as him well seemed,           befit
At the kinges own borde;   two knightes him served,           table
Singulere, soothly,   as Arthur himselven,           Singly 
Richly on the right hand   at the Round Table.
By resoun that the Romans   were so rich holden,           reason; powerful
As of the realest blood   that regned in erthe.           most royal; reigned
There come in at the first course,   before the king selven,           himself
Borehevedes that were bright,   burnisht with silver           Boar-heads; adorned
All with taught men and towen   in togges full rich,           All with men trained and taught, in very rich clothes
Of sank real in suite,   sixty at ones;           All of royal blood in a troop, sixty together
Flesh flourisht of fermison,   with frumentee noble,           Flesh fattened in season with noble frumentee 
There-to wild to wale,   and winlich briddes,           Along with wild  to choose, and pleasant birds
Pacockes and plovers   in platters of gold           Peacocks
Pigges of pork despine   that pastured never;           Piglets; porcupine
Sithen herons in hedoyne   heled full fair,           Then; plumage concealed
Grete swannes full swithe   in silveren chargeours,           Very many large swans on silver platters
Tartes of Turky,   taste whom them likes;           Pies of Turkey, to be tasted by whomever it pleases
Gumbaldes graithly,   full gracious to taste;           Beef pies readily
Senn bowes of wild bores   with the brawn leched,           Then shoulders of wild boars, with the lean meat sliced
Bernakes and botoures   in batterd dishes,           Barnacle geese and bitterns in pastry-covered dishes
Thereby braunchers in bred,   better was never,           young hawks; bread
With brestes of barrowes   that bright were to shew;           breasts; pigs; be seen
Senn come there sewes sere   with solace thereafter,           Then; stews various
Ownde of azure all over   and ardaunt them seemed;           Wavy with azure-coloured sauce all over, and they appeared to be flaming
Of ilk a leche the lowe   launched full high,           From each slice the flame leaped very high
That all ledes might like   that looked them upon;           men; who
Then cranes and curlewes   craftily rosted,           roasted
Connies in cretoyne   coloured full fair,           Rabbits; milk and spices
Fesauntes enflourished   in flamand silver,           Pheasants adorned; flaming
With darielles endorded   and dainties ynow;           With pastries glazed with egg yolks and many  dainties
Then Claret and Crete   clergially rennen           Then Claret and Creten wine were cunningly made to flow
With condethes full curious   all of clene silver,           By conduits that were skillfully made, all of pure silver
Osay and Algarde   and other ynow           Alsatian and Spanish wines; many others
Rhenish wine and Rochelle,   richer was never,
Vernage of Venice,   virtuous, and Crete,           White wine; full-bodied
In faucetes of fine gold,   fonde who-so likes;           vessels; to try
The kinges cup-bord   was closed in silver,           enclosed
In grete gobletes overgilt,   glorious of hew;           With great jewels gilded over, glorious of hue
There was a chef butler,   a chevaler noble           chief; chevalier
Sir Kayous the courtais,   that of the cup served;           courteous
Sixty cuppes of suite   for the king selven,           cups in a set
Crafty and curious,   corven full fair,           Skillfully made; carved
In ever-ilk a party pight   with precious stones,           Each part adorned
That none enpoison sholde go   privily there-under           So that if any poison should go secret under them 
But the bright gold for brethe   sholde brist all to peces,           The bright gold would burst all to pieces with anger
Or else the venom sholde void   through virtue of the stones;           Or else the poison should lose its power because of the virtue of the precious stones
And the conquerour himselven,   so clenly arrayed,           handsomely
In colours of clene gold cledde,   with his knightes,           pure; clad
Dressed with his diadem   on his dese rich,           dais
For he was deemed the doughtiest   that dwelled in erthe.
Then the conquerour kindly   carped to those lordes,           spoke
Reheted the Romans   with real speche:           Cheered; royal speech
"Sirs, bes knightly of countenaunce   and comfortes yourselven;           be
We know nought in this countree   of curious metes;           exotic meats
In these barrain landes   breedes none other;           barren
Forthy, withouten feining,   enforce you the more           Therefore, without pretending , force yourself all the more
To feed you with such feeble   as ye before find."           poor food
"Sir," says the senatour,   "so Crist mot me help,           as; may
There regned never such realtee   within Rome walles!           reigned; royalty
There ne is prelate ne pope   ne prince in this erthe           is no; nor
That he ne might be well payed   of these pris metes!"           pleased; excellent foods
After their welth they wesh   and went unto chamber,           bounteous feast; washed
This ilk kidd conquerour   with knightes ynow;           same famous; many knights
Sir Gawain the worthy   Dame Waynor he ledes,           Guinevere; leads
Sir Owghtreth on tother side,   of Turry was lord.           the other
Then spices unsparely   they spended thereafter,           unsparingly; expended
Malvesy and Muskadell,   those marvelous drinkes,           Malmsey and Muscatel
Raiked full rathely   in rosset cuppes           Went round very quickly in russet-coloured  cups
Til all the rich on row,   Romans and other.           To; in turn
But the soveraign soothly,   for solace of himselven,           pleasure
Assigned to the senatour   certain lordes
To lede to his levere,   when he his leve askes,           lead; desired place; leave
With mirth and with melody   of minstralsy noble.           musicians
Then the conquerour to counsel   kaires thereafter           goes
With lordes of his legeaunce   that to himself longes           allegiance; belong
To the Giauntes Towr   jollily he wendes            Giants' Tower; goes
With justices and judges   and gentle knightes.           noble
Sir Cador of Cornwall   to the king carpes,           speaks
Laugh on him lovely   with likand lates;           Smiles on him pleasantly with pleasing features
"I thank God of that thro   that thus us thretes!           trouble; threatens
You must be trailed, I trow,   but yif ye tret better!           dragged; believe; unless
The lettres of Sir Lucius   lightes mine herte.           lighten; heart
We have as losels lived   many long day           wastrels
With delites in this land   with lordshippes many           delights
And forlitened the los   that we are laited.           lessened; praise; esteemed
I was abashed, by our Lord,   of our best bernes,           by; men
For grete dole of deffuse   of deedes of armes.           sadness because of the ban
Now wakenes the war!   Worshipped be Crist!           reawakens
And we shall win it again   by wightness and strength!"           vigour
"Sir Cador," quod the king,   "thy counsel is noble;           said
But thou art a marvelous man   with thy merry wordes!
For thou countes no case   ne castes no further,           you take account of no circumstances, nor consider  any further
But hurles forth upon heved,   as thy herte thinkes;           spout off; heart
I moste trete of a trews   touchand these needes,           consider; truce; matters
Talk of these tithandes   that teenes mine herte.           tidings; grieve
Thou sees that the emperour   is angerd a little;
It seemes by his sandesman   that he is sore greved;           messenger; grieved
His senatour has summond me   and said what him liked,
Hethely in my hall,   with heinous wordes,           Scornfully; hateful
In speche despised me   and spared me little;           speech
I might not speke for spite,   so my herte trembled!           could not speak
He asked me tyrauntly   tribute of Rome,
That teenfully tint was   in time of mine elders,           painfully lost
There alienes, in absence   of all men of armes,           foreigners
Coverd it of commouns,   as cronicles telles.           Obtained; commoners
I have title to take   tribute of Rome;
Mine auncestres were emperours   and ought it themselven,           owned
Belin and Bremin   and Bawdewyne the third;
They occupied the empire   eight score winters,
Ilkon eier after other,   as old men telles;           Each one heir
They covered the Capitol   and cast down the walles,           seized
Hanged of their hedesmen   by hundrethes at ones;           head men; hundreds; once
Senn Constantine, our kinsman,   conquered it after,           Then
That eier was of Yngland   and emperour of Rome,           heir; England
He that conquered the cross   by craftes of armes,
That Crist was on crucified,   that King is of heven.           heaven
Thus have we evidence to ask   the emperour the same,
That thus regnes at Rome,   what right that he claimes."           reigns
Then answerd King Aungers   to Arthur himself:
"Thou ought to be overling   over to all other kinges,           overlord
For wisest and worthyest   and wightest of handes,           strongest
The knightlyest of counsel   that ever crown bore.
I dare say for Scotland   that we them scathe limped;           suffered harm from them
When the Romans regned   they ransound our elders           reigned; ransomed
And rode in their riot   and ravished our wives,
Withouten resoun or right   reft us our goodes;           reason; bereft us of
And I shall make my avow   devotly to Crist           devoutly
And to the holy vernacle,   virtuous and noble,           image of Veronica
Of this grete vilany   I shall be venged ones,           villainy; avenged at once
On yon venomous men   with valiant knightes!
I shall thee further of defence   fostred ynow           well trained
Twenty thousand men   within two eldes           ages
Of my wage to wend   where-so thee likes,           At my expense; travel
To fight with thy fomen   that us unfair ledes!"           foes; treat
Then the burlich berne   of Bretain the Little           stately man; Brittany
Counsels Sir Arthur   and of him beseekes           beseeches
To answer the alienes   with austeren wordes,           bold
To entice the emperour   to take over the mountes.
He said: "I make mine avow   verily to Crist,           vow
And to the holy vernacle,   that void shall I never           image of Veronica; retreat
For radness of no Roman   that regnes in erthe,           fear; reigns
But ay be redy in array   and at erest founden;           ready; the first
No more dout the dintes   of their derf wepens           fear the blows; grim
Than the dew that is dank   when that it down falles;
Ne no more shoun for the swap   of their sharp swordes           shrink; sweep
Than for the fairest flowr   that on the folde growes!           flower; ground
I shall to batail thee bring   of brenyed knightes           battle; armoured
Thirty thousand by tale, thrifty in armes,           count; prosperous
Within a month-day,   into what march           whatever country
That thou will soothly assign,   when thyself likes."
"A! A!" says the Welsh king;   "worshipped be Crist!
Now shall we wreke full well   the wrath of our elders!           avenge; injury to
In West Wales, iwis,   such wonders they wrought
That all for wandreth may weep   that on that war thinkes.           sorrow
I shall have the avauntward   witterly myselven,           vanguard certainly
Til that I have vanquisht   the Viscount of Rome,
That wrought me at Viterbo   a vilany ones,           villainy once
As I past in pilgrimage   by the Pount Tremble.           Pontremoli
He was in Tuskane that time   and took of our knightes,           Tuscany; some of
Arrest them unrightwisly   and ransound them after.           Arrested them unjustly and awfterwards held them for ransom
I shall him surely ensure   that saghtel shall we never           be reconciled
Ere we sadly assemble   by ourselven ones           ourselves alone
And dele dintes of deth   with our derf wepens!           deal; strong
And I shall wage to that war   of worshipful knightes,           bring at my expense
Of Wyghte and of Welshland   and of the West Marches,           Isle of Wight
Two thousand in tale,   horsed on steedes,           number
Of the wightest wyes   in all yon West Landes!"           strongest men
Sir Ewain fitz Urien   then egerly fraines,           Iwain son of Urien ; eagerly asks
Was cosin to the conquerour,   corageous himselven:           kinsman; courageous
"Sir, and we wiste your will   we wolde work thereafter;           if we knew; would
Yif this journee sholde hold   or be ajourned further,          journey; adjourned
To ride on yon Romans   and riot their landes,          ravage
We wolde shape us therefore,   to ship when you likes."           would prepare us
"Cosin," quod the conquerour,   "kindly thou askes           kinsman; said
Yif my counsel accord   to conquer yon landes.
By the kalendes of Juny   we shall encounter ones           first day of June
With full cruel knightes,   so Crist mot me help!          as; may
Thereto I make mine avow   devotly to Crist           devoutly
And to the holy vernacle,   virtuous and noble;           image of Veronica
I shall at Lamass take leve   to lenge at my large           At Lamas  I shall take my leave, to remain freely
In Lorraine or Lumbardy,   whether me leve thinkes;           In Lorraine or Lombardy, whichever seems preferable to me
Merk unto Meloine   and mine down the walles           Go; Milan; undermine
Both of Petersand and of Pis   and of the Pount Tremble;           Petrasanta ; Pisa; Pontremoli
In the Vale of Viterbo   vitail my knights,           supply 
Sujourn there six weekes   and solace myselven,           Sojourn; refresh
Send prikers to the pris town   and plant there my sege           riders; excellent; siege
But if they proffer me the pees   by process of time."           Unless; peace
"Certes," says Sir Ewain,   "and I avow after,           Certainly; vow
And I that hathel may see   ever with mine eyen           If; man; eyes
That occupies thine heritage,   the empire of Rome,
I shall aunter me ones   his egle to touch           venture; eagle-standard
That borne is in his banner   of bright gold rich,
And rase it from his rich men   and rive it in sonder,           snatch; cut it asunder
But he be redily rescued   with riotous knightes.                     Unless he  is rescued quickly by vigourous knights
I shall enforce you in the feld   with fresh men of armes,           reinforce; field
Fifty thousand folk   upon fair steedes,
On thy fomen to founde   there thee fair thinkes,           foemen to go where
In Fraunce or in Frisland,   fight when thee likes!"           Frisia
"By our Lord," quod Sir Launcelot,   "now lightes mine herte!           lightens
I lowe God of this love   these lordes has avowed!           praise
Now may less men have leve   to say what them likes,           lesser; leave
And have no letting by law;   but listenes these wordes:           hindrance
I shall be at journee   with gentle knightes           the day's fight; noble
On a jamby steed   full jollily graithed,           active; equipped
Ere any journee begin   to joust with himselven           Before any day's fight  begins, to joust with himself 
Among all his giauntes,   Genivers and other,           giants, Genoese
Strike him stiffly fro his steed   with strenghe of mine handes,
For all the steren in stour   that in his stale hoves!           Despite the strong  in battle that remain in his troop
Be my retinue arrayed,   I reck it but a little           reckon
To make route into Rome   with riotous knightes.
Within a seven-night day,   with six score helmes,           Within a week from today with one hundred and twenty knights
I shall be seen on the se,   sail when thee likes."           sea
Then laughes Sir Lot   and all on loud meles:           speaks
"Me likes that Sir Lucius   longes after sorrow;           for
Now he wilnes the war   his wandreth beginnes;           desires; sorrow
It is our werdes to wreke   the wrath of our elders!           fates to avenge
I make mine avow to God   and to the holy vernacle:           image of Veronica
And I may see the Romans   that are so rich holden,           If I can see the Romans, who are considered so powerful
Arrayed in their riotes   on a round feld,           Arrayed in their riotous groups on a broad field
I shall at the reverence   of the Round Table           for
Ride through all the rout,   rereward and other,           Ride through all the company, rear guard and the rest
Redy wayes to make   and renkes full rowm,           To make a ready way and paths full spacious
Runnand on red blood,   as my steed rushes!           Running with
He that followes my fare   and first comes after           route
Shall find in my fare-way   many fey leved!"          path; dead left
Then the conquerour kindly   comfortes these knightes,
Alowes them gretly   their lordly avowes;           Praises; vows
"Allweldand God   worship you all!           All-ruling; honour
And let me never want you,   whiles I in world regn;           be without you
My mensk and my manhed   ye maintain in erthe,           honour; manhood
Mine honour all utterly   in other kinges landes;
My wele and my worship   of all this world rich,           prosperity
Ye have knightly conquered   that to my crown longes.           belongs
Him thar be ferd for no foes   that swilk a folk ledes,           He needs be afraid; such
But ever fresh for to fight   in feld when him likes.           field
I account no king   that under Crist lives;           take account of
Whiles I see you all sound,   I set by no more."           depend on
When they trustily had treted   they trumped up after,           When they had confidently discussed , they blew on trumpets afterwards 
Descended down with a daunce   of dukes and erles.           group; earls
Then they sembled to sale   and souped als swithe,           met; hall; dined quickly
All this seemly sorte,   with semblaunt full noble.           company; splendour
Then the roy real   rehetes these knightes           royal king regales
With reverence and riot   of all his Round Table           respect; revelry
Til seven dayes was gone.   The senatour askes
Answer to the Emperour   with austeren wordes.           bold
After the Epiphany,   when the purpose was taken           January 6
Of peeres of the parlement,   prelates and other,           parliament
The king in his counsel,   courtais and noble,           courteous
Uters the alienes   and answers himselven:           Brings out
"Greet well Lucius, thy lord,   and laine not these wordes;           conceal
If thou be legemen lele,   let him wite soon           liege-man loyal; know
I shall at Lamass take leve   and lodge at my large           August 1; freely
In delite in his landes   with lordes ynow,           delight; many lords
Regne in my realtee   and rest when me likes;           Reign; royalty
By the river of Rhone   hold my Round Table,
Fang the fermes in faith   of all tho fair rewmes           Seize the revenues, in faith, of all those fair realms
For all the menace of his might   and maugree his eyen!           Despite the threat of his power and regardless of his resistance
And merk sithen over the mountes   into his main landes,           go; mountains
To Miloine the marvelous   and mine down the walles;           Milan; undermine
In Lorraine ne in Lumbardy   leve shall I nother           Lombardy; leave; neither
Nokine lede upon life   that there his lawes yemes;           No kind of man; keeps
And turn into Tuskane   when me time thinkes,           Tuscany
Ride all those rowm landes   with riotous knightes.           spacious; vigorous
Bid him make rescues   for mensk of himselven,           honour
And meet me for his manhed   in those main landes!           manhood; strong
I shall be founden in Fraunce,   fraist when him likes!           try
The first day of Feveryer   in those fair marches!           February
Ere I be fetched with force   or forfeit my landes,
The flowr of his fair folk   full fey shall be leved!           dead; left
I shall him sekerly ensure   under my sele rich           certainly; seal
To sege the citee of Rome   within seven winter           besiege; city
And that so sekerly ensege   upon sere halves           securely besiege; all sides
That many a senatour shall sigh   for sake of me one!           alone
My summons are certified   and thou art full served           provided
Of cundit and credens;   kaire where thee likes.           With safe-condust and credentials; go where you please
I shall thy journee engist,   enjoin them myselven,           I shall assign the resting-places for your journey, order them myself
Fro this place to the port   there thou shall pass over:           from
Seven days to Sandwich   I set at the large;           as a maximum time
Sixty mile on a day,   the sum is but little!
Thou moste speed at the spurs   and spare not thy fole;           must; foal
Thou wendes by Watling Street   and by no way elles;           travel; else
There thou nyghes on night   needes moste thou lenge;           Wherever you set down by night you must be necessity remain
Be it forest or feld,   found thou no further;           field; go
Bind thy blonk by a busk   with thy bridle even,           horse; bush
Lodge thyselven under linde   as thee lefe thinkes;           Lodge yourself under trees, wherever it seems good to you
There owes none alienes   to ayer upon nightes,           ought; wander
With such a ribawdous rout   to riot thyselven.           ribald; company
Thy license is limit   in presence of lordes,           limited
Be now loth or lette,   right as thee thinkes,           Whether  is now hateful or a hindrance in your mind
For both thy life and thy limm   ligges thereupon,           limb lie
Though Sir Lucius had laid thee   the lordship of Rome,           laid on you
For be thou founden a foot   withoute the flood marches           edge of the sea
After the aughtende day   when undern is rungen,           eighth; nine A.M.
Thou shall be heveded in hie   and with horse drawen,           You shall be speedily beheaded and torn apart by horses
And senn hiely be hanged,   houndes to gnawen!           And then quickly be hanged for dogs to gnaw
The rent ne red gold   that unto Rome longes           tax; belongs
Shall not redily, renk,   ransoun thine one!"           man, ransom you alone
"Sir," says the senatour,   "so Crist mot me help,           as; may
Might I with worship   win away ones           Could; go
I sholde never for Emperour   that on erthe lenges           should; remains
Eft unto Arthur   ayer on such needes;           Again; go; a message
But I am singely here   with sixteen knightes;           singly
I beseek you, sir,   that we may sound pass.           beseech; safely
If any unlawful lede   let us by the way,           man hinder
Within thy license, lord,   thy los is inpaired."           fame is impaired
"Care not," quod the king;   "thy cundit is knowen           said; safe-conduct
Fro Carlisle to the coste   there thy cogge lenges;           From; coast; ship
Though thy coffers were full,   crammed with silver,
Thou might be seker of my sele   sixty mile further."           Secure; seal
They enclined to the king   and congee they asked,           bowed; leave
Kaires out of Carlisle,   catches on their horses;           Go
Sir Cador the courtais   kend them the wayes,           courteous; taught
To Catrik them conveyed   and to Crist them bekenned.            entrusted
So they sped at the spurres   they sprangen their horses,           exhausted
Hires them hackenayes   hastily thereafter.           horses
So for reddour they ridden   and rested them never,           fear; rode
But yif they lodged under linde   whiles them the light failed;           Unless; tree
But ever the senatour forsooth   sought at the gainest.           nearest 
By the sevende day was gone   the citee they reched.           By the time the seventh
Of all the glee under God   so glad were they never
As of the sound of the se   and Sandwich belles.           sea; curfew
Withouten more stunting   they shipped their horses;           delay
Wery to the wan se   they went all at ones.           Weary; pale sea
With the men of the wale   they weighted up their ankers           gunwale; anchors
And fled at the fore flood;   in Flaunders they rowed           first high tide; to
And through Flaunders they found,   as them fair thought,           went
Til Aachen in Almaine,   in Arthur landes;           To; Germany
Gos by Mount Goddard   full grevous wayes,           They go; grievous
And so into Lumbardy,   likand to shew.           pleasant to be seen
They turn through Tuskane   with towres full high;           Tuscany
In pris appairelles them   in precious weedes.           They dress themselves worthily in precious clothes
The Sononday in Sutere   they sujourn their horses           Sunday; Sutri; rest
And seekes the saintes of Rome   by assent of knightes;
Sithen prikes to the palais   with portes so rich,           Spur; palace; gates
There Sir Lucius lenges   with lordes ynow;           Where; many lords
Loutes to him lovely   and lettres him bedes           Bows; properly; offers
Of credens enclosed   with knightlich wordes.           credentials; knightly
Then the Emperour was eger   and enkerly fraines;           eager; ardently asks
The answer of Arthur   he askes him soon,           immediately
How he arrayes the rewm   and rewles the pople,           orders the realm
Yif he be rebel to Rome,   what right that he claimes;           If
"Thou sholde his sceptre have sesed   and sitten aboven           seized; above
For reverence and realtee   of Rome the noble;           royalty
By certes thou was my sandes   and senatour of Rome,           Because; messenger
He sholde for solempnitee   have served thee himselven."           decorum
"That will he never for no wye   of all this world rich           man
But who may win him of war,   by wightness of handes;           Except; strength
Many fey shall be first   upon the feld leved,           dead; left
Ere he appere in this place,   proffer when thee likes.           appears
I say thee, sir, Arthur   is thine enmy forever,           tell you; enemy
And ettles to be overling   of the empire of Rome,           intends; overlord
That all his auncestres ought   but Uter himselven.           ownder; except
Thy needes in this New Yere   I notified myselven           message; made known
Before that noble of name   and nine sum of kinges;           nine in all
In the most real place   of the Round Table           royal
I summond him solemnly   on-seeand his knightes;            I summoned him solemnly  with his knights looking on
Senn I was formed, in faith,   so ferd was I never,           Since; born; fearful
In all the places there I passed   of princes on erthe.           where
I wolde forsake all my suite   of seignoury of Rome           following; lordship
Ere I eft to that soveraign   were sent on such needes!           again; errand
He may be chosen cheftain,   chef of all other           chieftain; chief
Both by chaunces of armes   and chevalry noble,
For wisest and worthyest   and wightest of handes.           strongest
Of all the wyes that I wot   in this world rich -           men; know
The knighliest creature   in Cristdendom holden          considered
Of king or of conquerour   crowned in erthe,
Of countenaunce, of corage,   of cruel lates,           courage; expressions
The comlyest of knighthood   that under Crist lives!
He may be spoken in dispens   despiser of silver,           called in his expenditures
That no more of gold gives   than of grete stones,
No more of wine than of water   that of the well runnes,
Ne of welth of this world   but worship alone.           wealth; except for
Such countenance was never knowen   in no kith riche           country
As was with this conquerour   in his court holden;
I counted at this Cristenmass   of kinges annointed,
Hole ten at his table   that time with himselven.           Ten in all
He will warray, iwis,   be ware yif thee likes;           make war
Wage many wight men   and watch thy marches,           Pay; borders
That they be redy in array   and at erest founden,           at the earliest time
For yif he reche unto Rome,   he ransouns it forever.           if; reach
I rede thou dress thee therefore   and draw no let longer;           I advise you to prepare yourself therefore and delay no longer
Be seker of thy soudeours   and send to the mountes;           sure; mercenaries
By the quarter of this yere,   and him quert stand,           year; if his health remains
He will wightly in a while   on his wayes hie."           stoutly; hasten
"By Ester," says the Emperour,   "I ettle myselven           Easter; intend
To hostay in Almaine   with armed knightes;           lead a host; Germany
Send frekly into Fraunce,   that flowr is of rewmes;           boldly
Fonde to fette that freke   and forfeit his landes,           Try; fetch; man
For I shall set keepers,   full cunnand and noble,           guards; cunning
Many giaunt of Gene,   jousters full good.           Genoa
To meet him in the mountes   and martyr his knightes,           mountains
Strike them down in straites   and stroy them forever.           narrow places; destroy
There shall upon Goddard   a garret be rered           A watch tower shall be raised on Mt. Goddard 
That shall be garnisht and keeped   with good men of armes,           furnished
And a becon aboven to brin   when them likes,           beacon; burn
That none enmy with host   shall enter the mountes.           enemy
There shall on Mount Bernard   be belded another,           built
Busked with bannerettes   and bachelers noble.           Equipped with noble bachelors and bannerets
In at the portes of Pavia   shall no prince pass           gates
Through the perilous places   for my pris knightes."           excellent
Then Sir Lucius lordlich   lettres he sendes
Anon into the Orient   with austeren knightes            bold
Til Ambyganye and Orcage   and Alisaundere eek           To Ambyganye  and Orcage and Alexandria as well
To Inde and to Ermonye,   as Eufrates runnes,           To India and to Armenia, where the Euphrates runs
To Asia and to Afrike,   and Europe the large,
To Irritaine and Elamet,   and all those oute iles,           Hyrcania; Elam; outer isles
To Arraby and Egypt,   til erles and other           to
That any erthe occupies   in those este marches           eastern countries
Of Damaske and Damiet,   and dukes and erles.           Damascus; Damietta
For drede of his daunger   they dressed them soon;
Of Crete and of Capados   the honourable kinges           Cappadocia 
Come at his commaundement   clenly at ones;           completely
To Tartary and Turkey   when tithinges is comen           China; tidings
They turn in by Thebay,   tyrauntes full huge,           Thebes
The flowr of the fair folk   of Amazonnes landes;           land of the Amazons
All that failes on the feld   be forfeit forever.           are lacking
Of Babylon and Baldake   the burlich knightes           Cairo; Baghdad; stately
Bayous with their baronage   bides no longer;           Men of Bayonne
Of Perse and of Pamphile   and Preter John landes           From Persia and Pamphilia and Prester John's lands
Ech prince with his power   appertlich graithed;           Each; openly prepared
The Sowdan of Surry   assembles his knightes           Sultan; Syria
Fro Nilus to Nazareth,   numbers full huge;           From Nile
To Garyere and to Galilee   they gader all at ones,           Gadara; gather; once
The sowdanes that were seker   soudeours to Rome;           sultans; trusty mercenaries
They gadered over the Greekes Se   with grevous wepens,
In their grete galleys,   with glitterande sheldes;           glittering shields
The King of Cyprus on the se   the Sowdan abides,           awaits
With all the reales of Rhodes   arrayed with him one;           royal ; alone
They sailed with a side wind   over the salt strandes,           ample
Sodenly the Sarazenes,   as themselve liked;           Quickly; Saracens
Craftyly at Cornett   the kinges are arrived,           Corneto
Fro the citee of Rome   sixty mile large.           away
By that the Greekes were graithed,   a full grete number,           By this time; prepared
The mightiest of Macedone,   with men of tho marches,           those
Pulle and Prussland,   presses with other,           Apulia; Prussia; hasten
The lege-men of Lettow   with legions ynow.           liege-men; Lithuania
Thus they semble in sortes,   summes full huge;           assemble; companies
The sowdanes and Sarazenes   out of sere landes           sultans; Saracens; various
The Sowdan of Surry   and sixteen kinges           Sultan; Syria
At the citee of Rome   assembled at ones.
Then ishews the Emperour,   armed at rightes           issues; completely
Arrayed with his Romans   upon rich steedes;
Sixty giauntes before, engendered with fendes,           by fiends
With witches and warlaws,   to watchen his tentes           warlocks
Aywere where he wendes   wintres and yeres.           Anywhere; years
Might no blonkes them bere,   those bustous churles,           horses; bear; wild
But coverd cameles of towrs,   enclosed in mailes;           camels covered with towers
He ayeres out with alienes,   hostes full huge           goes
Even into Almaine,   that Arthur had wonnen,           Directly; Germany
Rides in by the river   and riotes himselve,
And ayeres with a huge will   all those high landes;           goes
All Westfale by war   he winnes as him likes,           Westphalia
Drawes in by Danuby   and dubbes his knightes,           Danube
In the countree of Coloine   castelles enseges           Cologne; besieges
And sujourns that sesoun   with Sarazenes ynow.
At the utas of Hillary   Sir Arthur himselven                     At the Octave of St. Hillary's Day  Sir Arthur himself
In his kidd counsel   commaunde the lordes:           famous; commanded
"Kaire to your countrees   and semble your knightes,           Go; assemble
And keepes me at Constantine,   clenlich arrayed,           await; completely
Bides me at Barflete   upon the blithe stremes           peaceful streams
Boldly within borde,   with your best bernes;           aboard ; men
I shall menskfully you meet   in those fair marches."           honourably
He sendes forth sodenly   sergeauntes of armes           quickly
To all his mariners in row   to arrest him shippes;           commandeer
Within sixteen dayes   his fleet was assembled,
At Sandwich on the se,   sail when him likes.
In the palais of York   a parlement he holdes           palace
With all the peeres of the rewm,   prelates and other;           realm
And after the preching,   in presence of lordes,           preaching
The king in his counsel   carpes these wordes:           speaks
"I am in purpose to pass   perilous wayes,
To kaire with my keen men   to conquer yon landes,           go
To outraye mine enmy,   yif aventure it shew,           To outrage my enemy, if a chance should appear
That occupies mine heritage,   the empire of Rome.
I set you here a soveraign,   assent yif you likes,           if
That is my sib, my sister son;   Sir Mordred himselven           kin; sister's son
Shall be my leutenant,   with lordshippes ynow           lieutenant; enough authority
Of all my lele lege-men   that my landes yemes."           loyal liege-men; possess
He carpes to his cosin then,   in counsel himselven:           says; kinsman
"I make thee keeper, Sir Knight,   of kingrikes many,            guardian; kingdoms
Warden worshipful   to weld all my landes,           rule
That I have wonnen of war   in this world rich.
I will that Waynor, my wife,   in worship be holden.           desire; Guinevere
That her want no wele   ne welth that her likes;           prosperity
Look my kidd casteles   be clenlich arrayed,           famous; completely equipped
There sho may sujourn herselve   with seemlich bernes;           she; fair knights
Fonde my forestes be frithed,   of frendship for ever,           See that my forests are enclosed  on pain of losing my favour
That none warray my wild   but Waynor herselven,           That no one be allowed to hunt the game but Guinevere herself
And that in the sesoun   when grees is assigned,           And even she is to hunt only at the season when the game are fat enough to be hunted
That sho take her solace   in certain times.           So that she will take her pleasure at appropriate times
Chaunceller and chamberlain   change as thee likes,
Auditours and officers, ordain them thyselven,
Both jurees and judges,   and justices of landes;           juries
Look thou justify them well   that injury workes.           do justice to; do
If me be destained to die   at Drightens will,           fated; God's
I charge thee my sektour,   chef of all other,           executor; chief
To minister my mobles   for meed of my soul           goods; reward
To mendinauntes and misese   in mischef fallen.           mendicants; those in misery
Take here my testament   of tresure full huge;
As I traist upon thee,   betray thou me never!           trust
As thou will answer before   the austeren Judge           austere
That all this world winly   wisse as Him likes,           pleasantly directs
Look that my last will   be lely perfourned!           loyally performed
Thou has clenly the cure   that to my crown longes           completely; care
Of all my wordles wele   and my wife eek;           earthly prosperity; as well
Look thou keep thee so clere   there be no cause founden           clear; complaint
When I to countree come,   if Crist will it thole;           come home; allow
And thou have grace goodly   to govern thyselven,           If
I shall crown thee, knight,   king with my handes."
Then Sir Mordred full mildly   meles himselven,           speaks
Kneeled to the conquerour   and carpes these wordes:
"I beseek you, sir,   as my sib lord,           beseech; related by blood
That ye will for charitee   chese you another,           choose
For if ye put me in this plitt,   your pople is deceived;           plight; people
To present a prince estate   my power is simple;           princely
When other of war-wisse   are worshipped hereafter,           cunning in warfare
Then may I, forsooth,   be set but at little.           be little regarded
To pass in your presence   my purpose is taken           travel
And all my perveance appert   for my pris knightes."           provisions ready
"Thou art my nevew full ner,   my nurree of old,           nephew; near; nursling
That I have chastied and chosen,   a child of my chamber;           disciplined; praised
For the sibreden of me,   forsake not this office;           blood relationship to
That thou ne work my will,   thou wot what it menes."           If; know; means
Now he takes his leve   and lenges no longer
At lordes, at lege-men   that leves him behinden;           With; leaves
And senn that worthiliche wye   went unto chamber           then; worthy man
For to comfort the queen   that in care lenges.
Waynor waikly   weepand him kisses,           weakly weeping
Talkes to him tenderly   with teres ynow;           tears
"I may werye the wye   that this war moved,           curse; person
That warnes me worship   of my wedde lord;           denies; wedded
All my liking of life   out of land wendes,           pleasure
And I in langour am left,   leve ye, forever!           believe
Why ne might I, dere love,   die in your armes,
Ere I this destainy of dole   sholde drie by mine one!"           destiny; suffer; alone
"Greve thee not, Gaynor,   for Goddes love of heven,
Ne grouch not my ganging;   it shall to good turn!           begrudge; going
Thy wandrethes and thy weeping   woundes mine herte;           sorrows
I may not wite of this wo   for all this world rich;           turn aside from
I have made a keeper,   a knight of thine owen,           guardian; own
Overling of Yngland,   under thyselven,           Overlord
And that is Sir Mordred,   that thou has mikel praised,           much
Shall be thy dictour, my dere,   to do what thee likes."           spokesman
Then he takes his leve   at ladies in chamber,           from
Kissed them kindlich   and to Crist beteches;           kindly; entrusts 
And then sho swoones full swithe   when he his sword asked,           she; requested
Sways in swooning,   swelte as sho wolde!           as if she would die
He pressed to his palfrey,   in presence of lordes,           hastened
Prikes of the palais   with his pris knightes           spurs from; palace
With a real rout   of the Round Table,           company
Sought toward Sandwich;   sho sees him no more.           Went; she
There the grete were gadered   with galiard knightes,           Gathered; jolly
Garnished on the green feld   and graitheliche arrayed;           drawn up suitably
Dukes and douspeeres   daintely rides,           high noblemen
Erles of Yngland   with archers ynow.
Shirreves sharply   shiftes the commouns,           Sheriffs sharply move the common soldiers about
Rewles before the rich   of the Round Table,           Give orders  before the powerful  of the Round Table
Assignes ilk a countree   to certain lordes,           the soldiers from each country
In the south on the se bank   sail when them likes.
Then barges them buskes   and to the bank rowes,           prepare
Bringes blonkes on borde   and burlich helmes           horses aboard; stately
Trusses in tristly   trapped steedes,           securely; equipped
Tentes and other tooles,   and targes full rich,           siege-engines; shields
Cabanes and cloth-sackes   and cofferes full noble,           Cabins; sacks of clothes
Hackes and hackeneys   and horses of armes;
Thus they stow in the stuff   of full steren knightes.           stern
When all was shipped that sholde,   they shunt no lenger,           hold back; longer
But unteld them tite,   as the tide runnes;           untied; quickly
Cogges and crayers   then crosses their mastes,           Large ships and small boats then hoist their sails
At the commaundement of the king   uncovered at ones;           unfurled 
Wightly on the wale   they wie up their ankers,           Stoutly on the gunwale they weigh up their anchors
By wit of the watermen   of the wale ythes.           surging waves
Frekes on the forestaine   faken their cables           Men; bow coil
In floynes and fercostes   and Flemish shippes,           small ships; merchantmen
Titt sailes to the top   and turnes the luff,           Pull; bow
Standes upon steerbord,   sterenly they songen.           starboard; sternly; sang
The pris shippes of the port   proven their deepness,           test
And foundes with full sail   over the fawe ythes;           go; bounding waves
Holly withouten harm   they hale in botes,           Wholly; haul; boats
Shipmen sharply   shutten their portes,           shut; portholes
Launches lede upon luff   latchen their deepes,           Launch the lead on the luff  to measure the depth of the water
Lookes to the lode-stern   when the light failes,           North Star
Castes courses by craft   when the cloud rises
With the needle and the stone   on the night tides.           a compass
For drede of the dark night   they dreched a little           slowed down
And all the steren of the streme   steken at ones.           And all the stern men of the stream  struck sail at once
The king was in a grete cogge   with knightes full many,           ship
In a cabane enclosed,   clenlich arrayed;           cabin; completely
Within on a rich bed   restes a little,
And with the swogh of the se   in swefning he fell.           swaying; dreaming
Him dremed of a dragon,   dredful to behold,           He dreamed
Come drivand over the deep   to drenchen his pople,           driving; drown
Even walkand   out the West landes,           Directly walking
Wanderand unworthyly   over the wale ythes;           Wandered unbecomingly; surging waves
Both his hed and his hals   were holly all over           neck; wholly
Ounded of azure,   enamelled full fair;           Covered with waves of azure, enamelled  very fair
His shoulders were shaled   all in clene silver           His shoulders were all covered with scales of pure silver
Shredde over all the shrimp   with shrinkand pointes;           That clothed the monster with shrinking points 
His womb and his winges   of wonderful hewes,           belly; hues
In marvelous mailes   he mounted full high.
Whom that he touched   he was tint forever!           lost
His feet were flourished   all in fine sable           decorated
And such a venomous flaire   flow from his lippes           flame flowed
The flood of the flawes   all on fire seemed!           outpouring; flames
Then come out of the Orient,   even him againes,           Then came out of the East, directly against him
A black bustous bere   aboven in the cloudes,           A wild black bear above in the clouds
With ech a paw as a post   and paumes full huge           With each paw as big as a post, and palms very huge
With pikes full perilous,   all pliand them seemed;           With very perilous claws that seemed all curling
Lothen and lothly,   lockes and other,           Hateful and loathly, his hair and the rest
All with lutterd legges,   lokkerd unfair,           With legs all bowed, covered with ugly hair
Filtered unfreely,   with fomand lippes -            That was churlishly matted, with foaming lips
The foulest of figure   that formed was ever!
He baltered, he blered,   he braundished thereafter;           danced about; grimaced
To batail he bounes him   with bustous clawes;           prepares himself; wild
He romed, he rored,   that rogged all the erthe,           bellowed; roared; rocked
So rudely he rapped at   to riot himselven!           So violently he stamped on  to enjoy himself
Then the dragon on dregh   dressed him againes           finally came against him
And with his duttes him drove   on dregh by the welken;           blows; afar; sky
He fares as a faucon,   frekly he strikes;           falcon; boldly
Both with feet and with fire   he fightes at ones.
The bere in the batail   the bigger him seemed,           bear
And bites him boldly   with baleful tuskes;
Such buffetes he him reches   with his brode klokes,           gives; claws
His breste and his brayell   was bloody all over.           breast; waist
He ramped so rudely   that all the erthe rives,           He reared up on his hind legs so rudely that all the earth was shaken
Runnand on red blood   as rain of the heven!           Running
He had weried the worm   by wightness of strenghe           wearied; serpent; stoutness
Ne were it not for the wild fire   that he him with defendes.           himself
Then wanders the worm   away to his heightes,           serpent
Comes glidand fro the cloudes   and coupes full even,           strikes directly
Touches him with his talones   and teres his rigge,           tears; back
Betwix the taile and the top   ten foot large!           long
Thus he brittened the bere   and brought him o live,           Thus he beat down the bear and killed him
Let him fall in the flood,   fleet where him likes.           float
So they thring the bold king   binne the ship-borde,           These dreams so oppress the king aboard the ship
That ner he bristes for bale   on bed where he ligges.           That he nearly bursts for pain on the bed where he lies
Then waknes the wise king,   wery fortravailed,           wakens; wearily exhausted
Takes him two philosophers   that followed him ever,
In the seven science   the sutelest founden,           most subtle
The cunningest of clergy   under Crist knowen;           most learned of scholars
He told them of his torment   that time that he sleeped:
"Dreched with a dragon   and such a derf beste,           Harassed; dire beast
Has made me full wery,   as wisse me Our Lord;           guide
Ere I mon swelt as swithe,   ye tell me my swefen!"           Before I must die quickly, interpret my dream for me
"Sir," said they soon then,   these sage philosophers,           immediately; wise
"The dragon that thou dremed of,   so dredful to shew,           dreamed; behold
That come drivand over the deep   to drenchen thy pople,           driving; drown
Soothly and certain   thyselven it is,
That thus sailes over the se   with thy seker knightes.           trusty
The coloures that were casten   upon his clere winges           shining
May be thy kingrikes all,   that thou has right wonnen,           kingdoms
And the tattered tail,   with tonges so huge,           tongues
Betokens this fair folk   that in thy fleet wendes.           Signifies
The bere that brittened was   aboven in the cloudes           beaten down
Betokenes the tyrauntes   that tormentes thy pople
Or elles with some giaunt   some journee shall happen,           else; day's fight
In singular batail   by yourselve one;           battle; alone
And thou shall have the victory,   through help of Our Lord,
As thou in thy vision   was openly shewed.
Of this dredful dreme   ne drede thee no more,           dream
Ne care not, sir conquerour,   but comfort thyselven
And these that sailes over the se   with thy seker knightes."
With trumpes then tristly   they trussen up their sailes           trumpet calls; boldly
And rowes over the rich se,   this rout all at ones;           company
The comly coste of Normandy   they catchen full even           coast; reach
And blithely at Barflete   these bold are arrived,           Barfleur
And findes a fleet there   of frendes ynow,
The flowr and the fair folk   of fifteen rewmes,           kingdoms
For kinges and capitaines   keeped him fair,           awaited
As he at Carlisle commaunded   at Cristenmass himselven.
By they had taken the land   and tentes up rered,           By the time; reared
Comes a Templar tite   and touched to the king;           quickly; told
"Here is a tyraunt beside   that tormentes thy pople,
A grete giaunt of Gene,   engendered of fendes;           Genoa; by fiends
He has freten of folk   mo than five hundreth,           devoured; more; hundred
And als fele fauntekins   of free-born childer.           And as many infants of noble children
This has been his sustenaunce   all this seven winteres,
And yet is that sot not sad,   so well him it likes!           rogue
In the countree of Constantine   no kind has he leved           family; left
Withouten kidd casteles,   enclosed with walles,
That he ne has clenly distroyed   all the knave childer,           male children
And them carried to the crag   and clenly devoured.
The duchess of Bretain   today has he taken,           Brittany
Beside Reines as sho rode   with her rich knightes,           Rennes; she
Led her to the mountain   there that lede lenges           man
To lie by that lady   ay whiles her life lastes.
We followed o ferrome   mo than five hundreth           from afar
Of bernes and of burges   and bachelers noble,           townsmen
But he covered the crag;   sho cried so loud           got to
The care of that creature   cover shall I never           recover
Sho was the flowr of all Fraunce   or of five rewmes,
And one of the fairest   that formed was ever,
The gentilest jowell   ajudged with lordes           most noble jewel; by
Fro Gene unto Gerone   by Jesu of heven!           Genoa; Gironne
Sho was thy wifes cosin,   know it if thee likes,           relative; acknowledge
Comen of the richest   that regnes in erthe;           reigns
As thou art rightwise king,   rew on thy pople           righteous; have pity
And fonde for to venge them   that thus are rebuked!"           endeavour; avenge
"Alas," says Sir Arthur,   "so long have I lived!
Had I witten of this,   well had me cheved.           known; achieved
Me is not fallen fair   but me is foul happened
That thus this fair lady   this fend has destroyed!           fiend
I had lever than all Fraunce   this fifteen winter           I would give the revenues of all France for the past fifteen years
I had been before that freke   a furlong of way           To have been even a furlong from that man
When he that lady had laght   and led to the mountes;           seized
I had left my life   ere sho had harm limped.           suffered
But wolde thou ken me to that crag   there that keen lenges,           show; keen one
I wolde kaire to that coste   and carp with himselven,
To trete with that tyraunt   for tresoun of landes           treat; treason
And take trews for a time   til it may tide better."           truce; betide
"Sir, see ye yon forland   with yon two fires?           promontary
There filsnes that fend,   fraist when thee likes,           lurks; try
Upon the crest of the crag   by a cold well
That encloses the cliff   with the clere strandes;           shining
There may thou find folk   fey withouten number,           dead
Mo florines, in faith,   than Fraunce is in after,           More coins
And more tresure untrewly   that traitour has getten           dishonestly; gotten
Than in Troy was, as I trow,   that time that it was wonnen."           believe
Then romes the rich king   for rewth of the pople,           bellows; pity
Raikes right to a tent   and restes no lenger;           Goes; longer
He welteres, he wresteles,   he wringes his handes;           writhes; wrestles
There was no wye of this world   that wiste what he mened.           knew; meant
He calles Sir Kayous   that of the cup served
And Sir Bedvere the bold   that bore his brand rich:           sword
"Look ye after even-song   be armed at rightes           completely
On blonkes by yon buscaile,   by yon blithe stremes,           horses; brush; calm
For I will pass in pilgrimage   privily hereafter,
In the time of souper,   when lordes are served,           dinner
For to seeken a saint   by yon salt stremes,
In Saint Michel mount,   there miracles are shewed."
After even-song   Sir Arthur himselven
Went to his wardrope   and warp off his weedes           wardrobe; threw; clothes
Armed him in a aketoun   with orfrayes full rich;           padded jacket; gold trim
Aboven, on that, a jerin   of Acres out over;           Upon that, a leather jacket
Aboven that a gesseraunt   of gentle mailes,           coat of mail
A jupon of Jerodine   jagged in shredes;           gipon; shreds
He braides on a bacenett   burnisht of silver           draws; helmet
The best that was in Basel,   with bordours rich;           borders
The crest and the coronal   enclosed so fair           diadem
With claspes of clere gold,   couched with stones;           shining; set
The vesar, the aventail, enarmed so fair,           visor; face-guard; plated
Void withouten vice,   with windowes of silver;           Devoid of defects
His gloves gaylich gilt   and graven at the hemmes           gaily; decorated
With graines and gobelets,   glorious of hew.           seed pearls; jewels
He braces a brode sheld   and his brand askes,           He puts on the arm straps  of a broad shield and asks for his sword
Bouned him a brown steed   and on the bente hoves;           Went to; ground waits
He stert til his stirrup   and strides on loft,           leapt; aloft
Straines him stoutly   and stirres him fair,
Broches the bay steed   and to the busk rides,           Spurs; bush
And there his knightes him keeped   full clenlich arrayed.           waited
Then they rode by that river   that runned so swithe,           swiftly
There the rindes over-reches   with real boughes;           trees reach over; stately
The roe and the reindeer   reckless there runnen,           roe deer
In ranes and in rosers   to riot themselven;           bushes; rosebushes; amuse
The frithes were flourisht   with flowres full many,           woods; flowered
With faucons and fesauntes   of ferlich hewes;           falcons; pheasants; wondrous
All the fowles there flashes   that flies with winges,
For there galed the gouk   on greves full loud;           sang; cuckoo; groves
With alkine gladship   they gladden themselven;           all sorts of gladness
Of the nightingale notes   the noises was sweet;
They threped with the throstels   three hundreth at ones!           debated; thrushes
That whate swowing of water   and singing of birds,           swift sound
It might salve him of sore   that sound was never!
Then ferkes this folk   and on foot lightes,           goes
Fastenes their fair steedes   o ferrom between;           They tie their horses with a good distance between them
And then the king keenly   commaunded his knightes
For to bide with their blonkes   and boun no further;           horses; go
"For I will seek this saint   by myselve one
And mele with this master man   that this mount yemes,           speak; possesses
And senn shall ye offer,   either after other           And afterwards you shall make your offerings, each after the other
Menskfully at Saint Michel,   full mighty with Crist."           Honourably to
The king covers the crag   with cloughes full high,           gets to; ravines
To the crest of the cliff   he climbes on loft,
Cast up his umbrere   and keenly he lookes,           visor
Caught of the cold wind   to comfort himselven.
Two fires he findes   flamand full high;
The fourtedele a furlong   between them he walkes;           quarter to
The way by the well-strandes   he wanderd him one           welling water
To wite of the warlaw,   where that he lenges.           learn; warlock; dwells
He ferkes to the first fire   and even there he findes           goes
A wery woful widow   wringand her handes,
And gretand on a grave   grisly teres,           weeping
New merked on molde,   senn mid-day it seemed.           Newly dug in the earth
He salued that sorrowful   with sittand wordes           saluted; fitting
And fraines after the fend   fairly thereafter.           asks; fiend
Then this woful wife   unwinly him greetes,           woman unhappily
Coverd up on her knees   and clapped her handes,
Said: "Careful, careman,   thou carpes too loud!           man
May yon warlaw wite,   he warrays us all!           warlock know; attacks
Weryd worth the wight ay   that thee thy wit reved,           Cursed be; man; stole
That mas thee to waife here   in these wild lakes!           makes; wander
I warn thee, for worship,   thou wilnes after sorrow!           desire
Whider buskes thou, berne?   unblessed thou seemes!           Whither go
Weenes thou to britten him   with thy brand rich?           Expect; destroy; sword
Were thou wighter than Wade   or Wawain   either,           fiercer
Thou winnes no worship,   I warn thee before.
Thou sained thee unsekerly   to seek to these mountes;           You crossed yourself unsafely  to go to these mountains
Such six were too simple   to semble with him one,           Six such as you would be too weak to attack him alone
For, and thou see him with sight,   thee serves no herte           For, if you see him with your eyes, you will not have the heart
To saine thee sekerly,   so seemes him huge.           To cross yourself securely, so huge does he seem
Thou art freely and fair   and in thy first flowres,           noble
But thou art fey, by my faith,   and that me forthinkes!           fated to die; grieves
Were such fifty on a feld   or on a fair erthe,           fifty such 
The freke wolde with his fist   fell you at ones.           man
Lo! Here the duchess dere - today was sho taken -           dear
Deep dolven and dede,   diked in moldes.           buried; buried; ground
He had murthered this mild   by mid-day were rungen,           He had murdered this mild one by the time the midday bell was rung
Withouten mercy on molde,   I not what it ment;           ground; knew not; meant
He has forced her and filed   and sho is fey leved;           raped; defiled; left dead
He slew her unslely   and slit her to the navel.           crudely
And here have I baumed her   and buried thereafter.           embalmed
For bale of the bootless,   blithe be I never!           sorrow; helpless
Of all the frendes sho had   there followed none after
But I, her foster moder,   of fifteen winter.           mother
To ferk off this forland   fonde shall I never,           go; promontary; endeavour
But here be founden on feld   til I be fey leved."