NARRATOR: There he lies. God rest his soul,
and his rudeness. A devouring public can now share
the remains of his sickness, and his phone numbers. There he lay...poet, prophet, outlaw, fake. Star of electricity. Nailed by a peeping Tom who would soon discover...
JUDE: ...a poem is like a naked person.
NARRATOR: Even the ghost was more than one person...
ARTHUR: ...but a song is something that walks by itself.
Aw, the ragman draws circles
Up and down the block
I'd ask him what the matter was
But I know that he don't talk
And the ladies treat me kindly
And they furnish me with tape
But deep inside my heart
I know I can't escape
Oh, Mama
Can this really be the end
To be stuck inside of Mobile
With the Memphis blues again?
Well, Shakespeare, he's in the alley
With his pointed shoes and his bells
Speaking to some French girl
Who says she knows me well
And I would send a message
To find out if she's talked
But the post office has been stolen
And the mailbox is locked
Oh, Mama
Can this really be the end
To be stuck inside of Mobile
With the Memphis blues again?
Now the rain man gave me two cures
Then he said, "Jump right in"
The one was Texas medicine
The other was just railroad gin
And like a fool I mixed them
And it strangled up my mind
And now people just get uglier
And I have no sense of time
Oh, Mama
Can this really be the end
To be stuck here inside of Mobile
With the Memphis blues again?
Woody runs up to a moving train, and throws his guitar case into an open car before climbing aboard himself. He stumbles, waking up the two hobos asleep in the car next to him.
HOBO JOE: Hey. How old are you, boy?
WOODY GUTHRIE: Eleven years old.
HOBO JOE: Oh. What's your name, son?
WOODY: Woody. Woody Guthrie.
HOBO MOE: Just like the singer.
WOODY: Way I see it, singin's kept me right in this world
more than any Bible's ever done. And somethin' else I learned Takes just about a fountain pen to get yourself robbed.
Woody puts down his guitar case which says 'THIS MACHINE KILLS FASCISTS'
HOBO MOE: Hey, Joe. What do you make about that?
HOBO JOE: Uh, son...you wouldn't be stashin' no weapons
in that case of yours?
WOODY: No, sir. Not in any literalized way.
What'd you say his name was?
ARTHUR: A- R-T-H-
GOVERNMENT AGENT: Please sit down.
ARTHUR: A-R-T-H-U-R...R-I-M-B-A-U-D.
GOVERNMENT AGENT: Born October 20th. That makes you 19, nearly 20. Is that correct?
ARTHUR: That's correct...So what's all this about?
WOODY: Well, Missouri, originally. A little town called Riddle. But all over, really. Been to Gallup, Phillipsburg, Sioux Falls...
HOBO MOE: I got me a cousin in Sioux Falls.
HOBO JOE: Yeah! That's right. Is- is there really a town called Riddle?
WOODY: Tell you the flat truth, that's sort of a... a whatchamacallit. A, uh...
HOBO JOE: A composite.
WOODY: A compost heap is more like it.
Laughs.
WOODY: Truth is, my mind got mixed with ramblin' when I was, oh, so young. I reckon it was Arvella Gray, the blind protest singer from Chicago. She first taught me the blues, four...about five years back. That's also when I first started writin' songs on my own. I've written some hillbilly songs. You know Carl Perkins, from Nashville?
HOBO JOE: Yeah, yeah.
WOODY: He sings some of my songs. Yep. Talkin' blues kind of stuff, you know? Union songs. I also played piano with Bobby Vee. I would've been a millionaire if I stayed with him.
HOBO JOE: Well, what brings you around these parts?
WOODY:  Carelessness.
I lost my one true love.
Camera pans outside train car, showing a sign with arrows pointing forward that says 'INDIAN JEWELRY COLD BEER KACHINA DOLLS LIQUOR SAND PAINTINGS GROCERIES'
And I started drinking. Next thing I know, I'm in a crap game. I wake up in a pool hall. One night, I meet up with a Chinaman working at a dime store who says he loves my sound. And next thing I know, I'm all booked up at his boss's establishment.
CARNY : The Tiny Troubadour!
I've been a moonshiner
For 17 long years
Woody comes on stage to boos, and thrown objects, before being thrown out of the Carnival tent, into the mud. Gorgeous George extends his hand to help him up.
GORGEOUS GEORGE: There you go, boy.
He hands Woody a slip of paper reading: "GORGEOUS GEORGE says: secrets are for keeping!"
WOODY: Of course, success ain't all it's cracked up to be, now. There's something sort of freakish, I suppose, setting someone up on stage apart from all the rest, when down in every boxcar, there's men of all ranges bouncing together. You got hobos, nobos, gentlemen loafers. One or all-time losers. Call us what you will. Deep down, we're all getting ready to tuck our heads under our wings for sleep. We of the Pullman side-car and the sunburned thumb. We ain't kidding ourselves. It's lonesome roads we shall walk. Til' I joined the Union cause!
Woody starts playing Bob Dylan's "Tombstone Blues" on his guitar
HOBO JOE : Don't he know it's 1959? We done unionized 20 years ago.
GOVERNMENT AGENT: Records indicate that you've been away, that you've stopped writing.
ARTHUR: I've been on too many streets to be doing the same thing over and over. Can I smoke in here? 
GOVERNMENT AGENT: You sound, for someone so widely known, a bit fatalistic.
ARTHUR : I'm not fatalistic. Bank tellers are fatalistic. Clerks are fatalistic. I'm a farmer. Who ever heard of a fatalistic farmer?
[Woody, Old Man Arvin, and Mr. Arvin sit on the porch, playing "Tombstone Blues"
WOODY :
The sweet, pretty things are in bed now, of course
The city fathers, they're trying to endorse
The reincarnation of Paul Revere's horse
But the town has no need to be nervous
OLD MAN ARVIN :
The hysterical bride in the penny arcade
Screaming, she moans, "I've just been made"
Then sends out for the doctor who pulls down the shade
Says, "My advice is to not let the boys in"
Where Ma Raney and Beethoven once unwrapped their bed roll
WOODY: Tuba players now rehearse around the flagpole
OLD MAN ARVIN: And the national bank for a profit sells road maps for the soul
WOODY & OLD MAN ARVIN: To the old folks home and the college
ALL:
Mama's in the factory
She ain't got no shoes
Daddy's in the alley
He's lookin' for food
I'm in the kitchen
With the tombstone blues
OLD MAN ARVIN: Hey, hey, yeah
The three of them laugh and hoot
MR. ARVIN: Boy, look like you found...you found your freedom before you found your technique.
WOODY: Now, real American music come from the bottom up. You take Blind Willie McTell. He's the best blues singer east of Cannery Row. He say, "Son, if you can sing these songs and understand them, ain't no place you can't go.
Mrs. Arvin pours Woody a glass of milk as she notices his foot restlessly tapping the ground
Ah, thank you very much, ma'am.
MRS. ARVIN: You're welcome.
WOODY: I reckon I come out the womb singing and picking and playing and all that mess.
MRS. ARVIN: So where your people at? Your kinfolk?
WOODY: Oh, they back in Stockton, ma'am. California. That's where I was raised. I figured they got plenty of mouths to feed as it is. Not that I care a fig about material things, you know, except for maybe a decent car. See, us thumb-slummers and box-jumpers, we get a little peckish when it comes to cars, you know?
OLD MAN ARVIN: That boy sound just like Doughboy Hawkins, a fella I met in the Dust Bowl.
MRS. ARVIN: Tell you what I think. I think it's 1959, and this boy's singing songs about the boxcar? Hmm. What a boxcar gonna mean to him? Right here, we got race riots, folks with no food. Why ain't he out there singing about that?
MR. ARVIN: The boy a guest in our house.
MRS. ARVIN: I know he's a guest. I'm just trying to speak what's in my mi-
WOODY: No! Say it.
MRS. ARVIN: Live your own time, child. Sing about your own time.
SIXTIES NARRATOR: Greenwich Village, once the in spot for beatnik jazz and bebop, is today home to the popular folk music fad, a do-it-yourself musical expression that's attracted youngsters from all across the nation. For them, these homespun songs of the working man express a truth and candor sorely lacking in today's growing consumer society.  Why do you prefer folk music to other types of music?
FOLK GIRL: Because it's honest. Commercial songs, pop music can't be honest. It's controlled and censored by the people who run society and make the rules.
SIXTIES NARRATOR: Yet, among the many new and talented artists to emerge, one name stands alone as the heart and soul of this growing musical trend. A young individual who both writes and performs some of his era's finest tunes, and hailed by the New York Times as folk music's Troubadour of Conscience. His name is Jack Rollins.
TV HOST: Jack Rollins, folk sensation of the early '60s, was the promise of a new generation. So what was it that made him run at the height of his career and throw it all away, trading in the limelight for a different kind of light altogether?
ALICE FABIAN: He saw what was going on in the world, and he had the ability to distill it into a song.
MORRIS BERNSTEIN: He could do a funny thing. He could do a pathos thing. He was sensational.
JACK ROLLINS : For the times, they are a-changin' 
VARIETY SHOW HOST: Now, this young man has taken to the hearts of young people who seem to somehow identify with, uh...Jack, why do you think that is?
JACK: Well, I don't know. I... I guess...I got a lot of thoughts inside of me, and most people, they...they...keep them all inside. And I guess it's for them that I do what I do.
TV HOST: Today, the name Jack Rollins might best be remembered as the tortured singer battling his conscience in the 1965 drama, Grain of Sand. The role, of course, that launched the career of Hollywood rebel Robbie Clark.
ROBBIE CLARK: Hell, I don't pick what I sing. It picks me. Some of it ain't pretty. I mean, how you ever gonna change anything if you only wanna show what's pretty?
TV HOST: In his first exclusive interview in 20 years...Tonight, we bring you face-to-face with the real Jack Rollins.
JACK : William Zanzinger killed poor Hattie Carroll
With a cane that he twirled 'round his diamond ring finger
ALICE: He saw what was going on in the world, and he had the ability to distill it into a song. And this elevated the discussion. I mean, certainly within the folk world, but all through popular music, the bar had risen.
TV HOST: Alice Fabian was herself a leading figure in the folk revival, achieving international success a few years before their first meeting in 1962.
ALICE:  Hey, you're in my chair.
I was at a party in the Village, and this twerpy little kid who'd been hanging around, kind of flirting with my baby sister and kissing up to me, starts playing these songs that he'd written on guitar. Now, this was '61, '62, and all anybody sang were traditionals, and here's this kid, applying traditional form to contemporary concerns, but with such insight, you know? It was devastating. You couldn't believe this was coming out of this little toad. Nobody was writing songs like that. It was as if he was giving voice to ideas that I wanted to express but didn't know how. Um, his finger-pointing songs, he called 'em. He was churning them out like ticker tape.
CARLA HENDRICKS: Well, folk music has always been a political music, but he was really expressing it as an art form in a way that was multileveled and very deep.
JACK :
Hattie Carroll was a maid of the kitchen
She was 51 years old and gave birth to ten children
Who carried the dishes and took out the garbage
And never sat once at the head of the table
And didn't even talk to the people at the table
She just cleaned up all the food from the table
And emptied the ashtrays on a whole other level
Got killed by a blow, lay slain by a cane
ALICE: Every night, I would call this ragamuffin on stage and introduce America to Jack Rollins. I'd say, you know, that he has something to say, you know, and that he is...he is speaking for me and everybody who wants a better world.
JACK :
Oh, but you who philosophize disgrace
And criticize all fears
Bury the rag deep in your face
Now is the time for your tears
FAN #1: He knows how to peel the surface from what he sees. His songs are like a true vision of how things really are.
FAN #2: Well, I just find he's the most piercing and aware insight working today.
BERNSTEIN: You'd have thought we invented it, we were so pleased and proud.
CUT TO: Album cover of Travelin' On by Jack Rollins
 Sure, there was a certain tendency in the folk movement for nostalgia about the Depression and the radicalism
that came out of it. They were coming out of a shitty time...the McCarthy era, Eisenhower era. So, as long as folk remained strictly a minority taste, it would always be us against the big, bad commercial tastelessness. But when the big, bad commercial tastelessness finally caught on to Jack, then, well, all of a sudden, the race was on. And this time, somebody was going to win.
GERRY HAMLIN: He was a rebel. I wanted to record protest. Of course, that's right when we were getting into that whole Nam business.
ALICE: Jack really stopped protesting after 1963. He said that you couldn't effect change with a song. You could only write about what was inside you, and folk music, he said, was, um...was fat people. He said it made him feel like the Establishment, you know, and he always fought the Establishment.
Mrs. Arvin tucks a sleeping Woody in, moving his guitar from his hands, and smiles
You will search, babe
At any cost
Everybody will help you
Some people are very kind
But if I can save you any time
Come on, give it to me
I'll keep it with mine
ARTHUR: You don't have to write anything down to be a poet. Some work in gas stations. Some shine shoes. I don't really call myself one, 'cause I don't like the word. Me, I'm a trapeze artist. Sighting it and hearing it and breathing it in, rubbing it all in the pores of my skin. And the wind between my eyes knocking honey in my comb.
Woody is sleeping on his guitar case on the floor of a train car.
DRUNK : You reckon he's some kind of midget?
MOONSHINER: Get off of there, grunt!
DRUNK: I ain't doing nothing!
Woody wakes up, and jumps to his feet with a scream.
THEIF:  Now look what you done!  You talk English?
WOODY: Yes, sir.
THIEF: You carrying money, boy? Weapons?
WOODY: N-No, sir.
MOONSHINER: He's lying.
THEIF: What's that?
DRUNK: That your fiddle? Huh?
The Drunk picks up Woody's guitar case
WOODY: Give it back.
DRUNK: Huh?
MOONSHINER: What's it say on that thing?
DRUNK: What you got stashed in here?
WOODY: Nothing!
Woody grabs his guitar case and runs to the open door of the moving train car.
THEIF: Get him, boys!
The three men and Woody wrestle for the guitar case. Woody kicks one of them in the shin, causing him to let go and yell in pain. Woody tumbles backward, out of the train car, which is on a bridge. Woody falls off the side of the bridge into the water below.
CARNY: This here young'un, the Tiny Troubadour, is going to sing a little song.
HOBO JOE: So what bring you around these parts?
OLD MAN ARVIN: Could've sworn he was an older man.
MRS. ARVIN: Live your own time, child.
THEIF: Get him, boys!
DRUNK: You reckon he's some kind of midget?
MOONSHINER: He's lying!
Woody is swimming and sees a large whale coming at him. He tries to swim away, but is swallowed.
ARTHUR : I dreamed of the Crusades. Republics without history. Secret religious wars. I believed in every kind of witchcraft. At first it was a study. I wrote out silences and nights. Later I determined vertigos.
Claire, underwater, watches Woody being eaten, and raises her hand as a wave.
Claire awakes to her alarm clock, and turns it off.
COMMERCIAL NARRATOR: Here's the boot camps, with tanks, jeeps, bullet-shooting machine guns, and 80 soldiers.
MOLLY : I just don't want to go.
CLAIRE: Oh, my poor, sad little thing. Do you know what a wonderful time you're going to have...on a boat with the water? Sounds pretty neat what your daddy's planned.
CARLIE: Me, too!
MOLLY: Why can't you come?
CLAIRE: Molly, you know I can't come. Is that why...you think you're feeling nervous about the boat? Hmm?
CARLIE: When's Daddy coming?
CLAIRE: Uh, Saturday, I think. I only spoke to Sally because it's impossible to get your father on the phone.
The doorbell rings
CLAIRE: It's Emily. Molly, you didn't eat a thing.
Bonjour, Hotel Georges V.
How may I direct your call?
Robbie... how can you whistle?
Who was that on the phone?
President Nixon
has already given advanced word
of what he will say
to Vice President Agnew,
to the Cabinet,
and to the leaders of Congress.
Now, here is the president.
I have asked for this radio
and television time tonight
for the purpose of announcing
that we today have concluded
an agreement to end the war
and bring peace with honor in Vietnam
and in southeast Asia.
The following statement
is being issued at this moment
in Washington and Hanoi.
At 12:30 Paris time today,
January 23, 1973...
Ain't it just like
the night to play tricks
When you're trying to be so quiet?
That's when she knew it was over for good.
The longest-running war
in television history.
The war that hung like a shadow
over the same nine years
as her marriage.
Throughout the years
of negotiations,
we have insisted
on peace with honor.
Lights flicker from the opposite loft
So why was it suddenly so hard to breathe?
In this room,
the heat pipes just cough
The country music
station plays soft
But there's nothing,
really nothing to turn off
Just Louise and her lover
So entwined
-  And these visions
- Thanks.
Of Johanna
That conquer my mind
More menacing, Gladys.
And... cut!
Check the gate.
Ladies and gentlemen,
I wish to thank each and every one of you.
You made it marvelous for me.
Cheers to all of you.
Hey, Louise! Louise!
So this is what
salvation must be like
After a while
In entertainment news,
actor Robbie Clark
is finally heading home
after four months abroad
during the filming of Gangplank,
his upcoming thriller.
Rumors linking Clark
to his London co-star,
the lovely newcomer Louise Pickering,
have been brewing for some time.
She's all right,
she's just near
She's delicate
and seems like the mirror
But she just makes it
All too concise and too clear
That Johanna's not here
Oh, the ghost of electricity
Howls in the bones of her face
Where these visions
of Johanna
Have now taken my place
Don't you see, Alice? They took it all away.
It's not about me anymore;
it's all about him.
Your guaranteed,
double-your-money-back
voice of the people.
You didn't answer my question.
Once, maybe, you could sing
about Mary Hamilton and lemon trees,
or you can step out like me
and try and shake this flytrap.
But they took away the meaning, Alice.
I was a pawn in their game.
And cut!
We first met in New York,
in January of '64 in the Village.
They'd just buried their president.
Love was in the air.
- Wait, you're French?
- Yeah, so?
- Well, you gotta be kidding me.
- Why?
No, nothing. It's perfect.
You kidding?
I think you're making a joke.
Oh, no. No, no, no.
No joke.
Then what else
aside from being French
you like so much about me?
Your hair, your mouth,
your eyes, your lips.
I see.
So, um...
You're an actor.
Yeah, yeah. So?
I like what you said in that scene.
Uh, what scene?
But they were just lines from a movie.
- They were not...
- Wait, wait, wait. What scene?
- What did you see?
- The scene in the lane.
Hmm.
I would like to know
what is at the center of your world.
The center of my world?
Uh...
Well, you're no monkeying around.
Why?
It's very simple, this question.
Um... hmm.
Well, I'm 22.
I guess I would say me.
I suppose you're honest.
Well, don't you think
that you're the center
or that you should be the center,
thinking with your own head,
talking with your own mouth?
Yeah.
But there are things in the world, too,
that are important.
I'm not denying that.
That's not what I'm saying.
Okay, thank you.
New York, August 7, 1964.
Congress grants President Johnson
complete authority
over the war in Vietnam
while she studies painting
at Cooper Union
and he completes dubbing
on his first major film.
She tells him she's sure it'll be a hit.
And the cats cross the roof,
mad in love,
scream into drainpipes,
and it's I who am ready.
Ready to listen.
Never tired, never sad, never guilty.
The guilty undertaker sighs
The lonesome
organ-grinder cries
The silver saxophones
say I should refuse you
The cracked bells and washed out horns
Blow into my face with scorn
But it's not that way
I wasn't born to lose you
I want you
I want you
I want you so bad
Honey, I want you
The drunken politician leaps
Upon the street
where mothers weep
And the saviors
who are fast asleep
They wait for you
And I wait for them to interrupt
Me drinking
from my broken cup
And ask me to open up
the gate for you
I want you
I want you
Yes, I want you so bad
Honey, I want you
Now all my fathers,
they've gone down
True love, they've been without it
But all their daughters
put me down
'Cause I don't think about it
Well, I return
to the Queen of Spades
And talk with
my chambermaid
She knows and she's
not afraid to look at her
Shit! You all right?
She is good to me
and there's nothing she...
Watch it!
It's not a fucking can of tomatoes.
But it doesn't matter
I want you
I want you
Yes, I want you so bad
Honey, I want you
Now, your dancing child
with his Chinese suit
He spoke to me, I took his flute
No, I wasn't very cute
to him, was I?
Okay, come on, let's go.
But I did it
because you lied
And because
he took you for a ride
It is my bike, you know.
Of course it is.
Because I want you
I want you
Yes, I want you so bad
All right, here we go.
Watch your leg.
- Change the gear!
- I am, I am!
- Change the gear!
- Yeah, I know, I know.
"It's wrong to say, 'I think. '
"One should say, 'I am thought. '
"I is someone else.
"I am present at the birth
of my thought.
"I watch and I listen.
"I draw a stroke of the bow.
"A symphony stirs in the depths,
"or comes with a leap
to the stage.
"It began with waves of disgust
and it ends... as we can't
immediately seize this eternity...
it ends with a riot of perfumes. "
Grain of Sand had become
the underground hit of 1965,
and Robbie Clark
the new James Dean,
Marlon Brando, and Jack Kerouac
all rolled into one.
But the movie disappointed her.
The more they tried
to make it youthful,
the more the images on screen
seemed out of date.
It wasn't the film they had dreamed,
the film they had
imagined and discussed,
the film they each wanted to live.
Intriguing specimen, really.
Amazing endocrine system.
So, he'll be all right, then?
Oh, he'll be fine.
Just a little water in the lungs.
Oh, my.
Well, what do you know?
Looks like somebody might be able
to thank you in person.
Son? Can you hear me?
I'm Dr. Field.
And this here lady
pretty near saved your life.
Hello there.
I-I'm Mrs. Peacock.
My husband and I,
we're the ones that found you.
Oh, the time will come up
when the winds will stop
And the breeze will cease
to be breathin'
Like the stillness in the wind
Before the hurricane begins
The hour that
the ship comes in
And the sea will split
and the ships will hit
And the sands on the shoreline
Will be shaken
And the tide will pound
and the waves will sound
And the mornin' will be a-breakin'
And no formal training?
Remarkable.
Sayin' we'll meet
all your demands
But we'll shout from the bow
"Your days are numbered"
And like Pharaoh's tribe
They'll be drownin' in the tide
And like Goliath
They'll be conquered
- Just terrific!
- Fantastic!
That was a fine job.
- Thank you, thank you.
- That's just wonderful.
How about another helping?
- Woody?
- Yes, ma'am.
More wine, Woody?
Yes, sir. Thank you, sir.
Do you know
what your plans are from here?
My only real plan
is to become a singer,
a real singer on television,
either that or a kind of voice
of the people, you know?
Interesting.
Because I've been
writing me some songs,
songs about what's going on.
And I'm going
to take these songs,
and I'm going to head
straight to Hollywood.
Going to make it big just like Elvis Presley.
Well, Woody, I wouldn't be surprised
if you did just that.
- There you are, Woody.
- Thank you.
And don't you go rushing off anyplace
until you feel 1000/0, you hear?
Yes, ma'am.
Have to mother you while you still have
a roof over your head.
Who on earth?
- Are you expecting a call?
- No.
So, Hollywood?
- Hello?
- Not Tin Pan Alley?
Yes, it is. Who's calling?
Minnesota?
Well, how could...
Dr. Field, yes.
Would you hold on
just a moment, please?
Esther?
It's a juvenile center in Minnesota.
A what?
Something... Corrections.
You talk to 'em, Jack.
They think it's Woody.
What do they know about Woody?
They said they're looking for some...
a juvenile, but...
some state, you know, fugitive.
Certainly not Woody.
Seen the arrow on the doorpost
Sayin' this land is condemned
Now, I'm just one walker that's stood way up
and looked way down
across plenty o' sights
in all their veiled
and nakedest seasons.
Sighting it, hearing it,
seeing and feeling
and breathing it in.
Sucking down on it.
Rubbing it all
in the pores of my skin,
and the wind between my eyes
knocking honey in my comb.
Whoa.
Blind Willie Mc Tell
See them big plantations burnin'
Hear the crackin' of the whips
Smell that sweet
magnolia bloomin'
See the ghost of slavery ships