There's a gnome in Arizona. Moaning baritone. Beware his owner or manager. Callin me an amateur, ha. But I can damage ya and I don't need a manager. I am mature enough to know a grand to have a fan adjure for a feature from any man of your caliber is crazy, you ain't even a challenge for my Excalibur. You're flamboyant, claiming that your homies with Hopsin then I see at his show fan-boy'in, it's so damn annoying. If you were manic, you'd walk around in a dress? Addressin what you're too pussy to talk about in a text? Fucking grow up cuz i'm the match you needed with that can of gas you mentioned in the song and so maybe could've blown up. I was a fan of yours,  i gave you the props and you just turn around and tell me that i'm tryna be Hopsin. Go on twitter and complain about me, say that im whack then subliminally say i need to cover my back, well fuck that. You need to cover your ass instead of covering songs before you're covered in casts. I'm not the violent type but once i get this hype, i can figit, who fucking knows what kind of shit that i can kick out a midgit. Tell Jamie that I'm sorry for offending him homie. This shit is awkward dissing someone who's a friend of a homie but now I'm pissed off. Comin back with a vengence. You think your shit is hot enough to do a track with the legends? Bitch please. Now i'm aware that you have got the following it takes to be a cocky motherfucker. But you ain't got the skills it takes to make me spend a thousand for a verse and when i dont, you wanna knock me motherfucker? Its hard earned money. Why would i spend it just to shit on somebody? Man even swizzz got on my shit and tried to give ME some money so fuck cryptic! Dwarf ass looking like a limp dick, pissing, moaning, groaning, fucking limp bizkit, ah- little rapper doin slow rock, rockin a choker, a fuckin joker with a mohawk, gay shit- i didn't wanna say shit til i came around to make ammends and then you hit me with the same shit- so- fit the description? Fuck it just give a listen, i kicked a midgit for spitting some shit he calls cryptic wisdom- go ahead and diss me you little bitch, its a scrimmage, youre a hard rapper? You're too small to even fit the image