SnakebitIntro
WU: Previously on Ninjago...
A montage of scenes from the previous episode is played, followed by the "Weekend Whip" title sequence.
Scene One: Destiny's Bounty
The ninja are asleep on the Destiny's Bounty when they are woken up by Wu repeatedly banging a small cymbal.
WU: Evil doesn’t sleep and neither should you! In order to reach your full potential, we must greet each day as an opportunity.
The ninja begrudgingly start to get up.
KAI: Okay okay, we're up. But if you want us to reach full potential, shouldn't we at least get a full night of rest?
COLE: You call that a rest? I think my back had more lumps than the mattress.
JAY: We were up so late, talking about how cool it is to have a new headquarters, I guess we lost track of time. Since the Serpentine burned down our monastery, I'm just glad we have a roof over our head...
As he is talking, he goes to put some water on his toothbrush, but all that comes out of the tap is dirt. He starts to brush his teeth but quickly realises the dirt is there and spits it out.
ZANE: What is our lesson today, Sensei? Mastering the strike of the Scorpion? Or perhaps the grace of—
As Zane pulls off some ninja moves, the floor breaks, and the dust that rises up from it causes him to cough.
WU: I think today's lesson would be chores.
NINJA: Chores?!
COLE: Ninja fight, Sensei. They do not clean.
WU: In order to respect ourselves, we must respect our new home and where we are from. And this place is a long way from becoming a Ninja headquarters. I expect things to be spotless when I return. And put your backs into it.
He bangs the cymbal again and leaves.
KAI: This place is gonna take forever to clean and fix up.
JAY: Unless we put more than our backs into it, huh?
A cleaning montage follows of the ninja using their ninja powers to clean up the Bounty . Cole uses spinjitzu to clear up all the trash in the room and dispense it outside. In another room, Zane uses the Shurikens of Ice to freeze the whole room. Kai then uses the Sword of Fire to melt the ice, cleaning the room. Elsewhere, Jay uncovers a large computer system, using the Nunchucks of Lightning to restore power to it. All of the ninja fix the flagpole.
Later on, Wu and Nya return to find the ninja playing a videogame.
KAI: What took you so long?
NYA: Wow, This place looks amazing! You guys did all this?
COLE: Ninja don't just fight, Nya. We clean.
WU: Oh, you have exceeded my expectations, but can you keep it up?
The honk of a car horn is heard. Outside, a car is seen approaching.
NYA: Looks like we're about have some visitors, and loud ones at that.
JAY: sighs Ugh...It's my parents. Please, if they start yapping, just don't let them going, okay? They don't know when to quit. And if you start talking then they'll start talking, and suddenly half the day is gone before you know it ends...
KAI: We get it! They talk a lot.... quietly, aside the cherry doesn't fall far from its blossom.
Outside, Ed and Edna, Jay's parents bump into the rubbish heap Cole put there earlier.
ED: Oh, heh. Take a note, Edna. Either better brakes or a better bumper.... Oh, will you look at all this great stuff. They can't just get rid of it. We should have brought the trailer, Edna.
EDNA: This ain't a flea market, Ed. We're here for Jay.
ED: What was that? Did you take a note?
EDNA: I'm writing it down, Ed.
The ninja come outside.
JAY: Mom! Dad! What are you doing here?
EDNA: Oh, look! It's my baby boy! It's been so long since we heard from you!
JAY: Ma, I called you two days ago.
ED: Oh well... It's not soon enough, son. When are you coming out to the junkyard? You say you are coming an..an..and you don't.
JAY: Dad...do we have to talk about the junkyard in front of my friends?
EDNA: He hates it when we tell people he was born in a junkyard. to Nya Oh... and who are you? gasps You are so cute! You are just my son's type.
JAY: Mom!
NYA: It's a pleasure of meeting you. I'm sure if you want, Jay can give you a tour. He worked very hard on it.
ED and EDNA: We'd love a tour!
Jay puts his head in his hands and sighs.
Scene Two: The Bridge
Jay shows his parents various things at the bridge of the Destiny's Bounty.
JAY: And this the bridge. This extends into a periscope. This tells what's going on of Ninjago. And this...if a Serpentine's not giving us the answer we want, and we're late up night..
EDNA: A neuro apparatus to read their minds?
ED: An audio appliance to make them talk?
JAY: No, a cappuccino machine.
ED: Ha ha. Amazing, son! We're so proud of you.
COLE: Why don't you tell them about the button?
JAY: Heheh it's not ready yet.
EDNA: Oh, what's the button?
ZANE: He's working on a special defence system.
KAI: Something every Ninja headquarters needs.
ED: Oh, really? What does it do? Can I help?
JAY: No, it's okay. I don't need your help, dad. Let's just leave it alone. Hey, look at the time. Don't you need to get back before it gets dark? I told you, there's dangerous Serpentine out there.
ED: Uh, I suppose we could get back.
COLE: Edna, it was a pleasure hearing about Jay's first potty time.
EDNA: Oh, if you thought that was good, wait until you hear the story about the time I caught him kissing his pillow!
JAY: Snakes, ma. Snakes!
EDNA: Okay, we're going. We're going.
Ed and Edna get back in their car and begin to drive off.
EDNA: So you promise to come to the junkyard to visit your mother and father?
JAY: Yes, I promise! But only if you leave. I don't want you to get hurt. It's getting dark. Uh, your headlights are working, right?
Ed switches on the headlights, which are blindingly bright. All the ninja shield their eyes.
ED: Heh, like 'em? I used a little extra juice.
He turns off his lights.
Yep. Bye, son. I couldn't be more proud.
ED: And bring Nya with you, will ya? I can see why you like her.
JAY: Mom!
Ed and Edna drive off.
WU: Now that they have left, maybe Jay can teach us the art of kissing pillows... he snickers.
JAY: Ugh!
Everyone walks back to the Bounty.
Scene Three: The Desert
Ed and Edna are driving through the desert.
ED: I don't think he's coming, dear.
EDNA: Stop it, Ed. He's coming.
ED: No, he doesn't need us anymore. I just have to remember that. Uh, write it down for me, would ya?
EDNA: Oh, dear. Lights, dear. It's getting dark.
ED: Right, heh. Thanks, sugarplum.
Scene Four: A Graveyard, at night.
LLOYD: It's not scary. Um, maybe just a little, but I like scary. Yeah, that's it. I'm the son of the Dark Lord. I love the dark. I eat this stuff for breakfast
He points his torch at a scary snake statue and screams.
I'm gonna make those Hypnobrai pay for betraying me. I have to find the Fangpyres. If there's anything a snake doesn't like, it's another snake. Here, by the mutated tree. I found it! Soon, the Serpentine will know who their master is, and it will be I, Lloyd Garmadon!
Lloyd starts laughing, but then lightning strikes and he screams. He opens the door to the Fangpyre tomb, and flocks of Fangpyre come out, with the General, Fangtom being the last to leave.
FANGTOM #1: And who...
FANGTOM #2: ...may I say released us...
FANGTOM #1: ...from our captivity?
LLOYD: Uh, Lloyd? I released you to make the Hypnobrai pay for betraying me.
FANGTOM #2: The Hypnobrai?
FANGTOM #1: Those hypnotizing deceivers.
FANGTOM #2: It'll be...
FANGTOM #1: ...our pleasure.
LLOYD: Oh, good. I'll lead the way. Then after that, there's some Ninja I want dealt with.
FANGTOM #1: Sounds like...
FANGTOM #2: ...you know...
FANGTOM #1: ...what you want.
FANGTOM #2: But the Hypnobrai are strong.
FANGTOM #1: And we are few in numbers.
FANGTOM #2: We need...
FANGTOM #1: ...reinforcements!
LLOYD: What did you have in mind?
The Fangtom heads hiss as more Fangpyre come out of the tomb. Lloyd lets out an evil laugh.
Scene Five: Ed and Edna's Scrap 'n' Junk
ED: Home, sweet home. And back to the grind.
He picks up his toolbox and starts working on a covered-up contraption.
EDNA: Oh, sweetie. You've been working on that thing day and night.
ED: Well, you never know when Jay may show up.
EDNA: Oh, you're right. You never know.
A dark shadow passes by.
ED: Uh, Edna? Was that you?
EDNA: What, Ed? Are you hearing things again?
ED: Uh, you uh, you turned on the security alarm before you left, didn't ya, hun?
Edna goes to check the alarm, but it appears to be broken.
EDNA: Uh, must be broken.
The lights shut off.
ED: Whoever's there, my son knows Spinjitzu!
A hiss is heard.
EDNA: What is it, Ed? Oh, why are the lights out?
ED: Call Jay, hun. Someone's broken in!
Lloyd is then seen standing on top of a stack of tyres, holding a telephone with a broken cord.
LLOYD: How about we wait until he calls you?  Muahahaha!
EDNA: Ed...
ED: Be strong, Edna. I won't let them hurt you.
FANGTOM #1: If we plan...
FANGTOM #2: ...to attack...
FANGTOM #1: ...the Hypnobrai...
FANGTOM #2: ...we'll need to grow...
FANGTOM #1: ...our army.
LLOYD: And uh, how do we do that?
FANGTOM #2: Let's just say...
FANGTOM #1: ...we Fangpyre bite off more...
FANGTOM #2: ...than we can chew.
FANGTOM #1: Have at it, boys!
The Fangpyre start biting Ed and Edna's creations, which start turning into Serpentine vehicles.
ED: My creations! They are turning them into—
FANGTOM #1: An army?
FANGTOM #2: You are correct.
FANGTOM #1: But we can also turn people, too
Ed and Edna shake in fear as the Fangpyre gradually approach them.
Scene Six: Destiny's Bounty
Jay is on the bridge, working on "the button". Kai and Zane walk past, deliberately raising their voices so Jay hears their conversation.
KAI: Sure got a lot of junk piling up. If only there was a place we could get rid of it...
JAY: If you don't mind, I'm trying to focus.
Cole passes by, pretending to be on his phone.
COLE: Hi, mom and dad. Of course, I'd love to visit. What kind of son would I be if I didn't want to?
JAY: Heheheheh. I know what you're trying to do. Okay, look, I might have promised to visit my parents, but there's a lot of stuff on my plate.
Nya comes in.
JAY: Hehe. Hi, Nya.
NYA: You gonna visit your parents, today?
JAY: Uh, sure am. Just about to leave.
NYA: Tell them I say hi.
The other ninja stare accusingly at Jay.
JAY: What? So my plate's not that full.
Scene Seven: Outside
Jay is trying to move his dragon, but he won't budge.
JAY: Come on, Wisp. It'll be a quick visit. Just in and out, nothing more.
WU: Hm, it is as I suspected. The Dragons are moulting. They're shedding their scales.
JAY: What does that mean?
WU: Every adolescent Dragon goes through a transformation before it becomes an adult. We must allow them to migrate east to the Spirit Coves for their transformation.
JAY: Will we see them again?
WU: It is hard to say. But we need to allow them to follow their path.
COLE: Rocky's going east? Say it isn't so, Rocky.
Zane and Cole pet their dragons.
Jay walks to Nya, who is standing near Flame. Kai is behind the dragon, but Jay doesn't see him at first.
JAY: Well, I guess I gotta go on this long walk all by myself. Sure be nice to have company...
KAI: Of course we'll go, buddy.
Cole: I could use a break.
ZANE: All you had to do was ask.
Jay sighs in frustration. The ninja walk with Wu and Nya towards the Junyard, with Wu playing the Sacred Flute.
JAY: sighs Of all the days to lose our ride...
ZANE: That flute. You've never told us why it's so special.
WU: Long ago there were many flutes, created to combat the powers of the Serpentine and drive them underground. But over time, Ninjago's forgotten its ancestors' wisdom, and now this is the only one.
JAY: I get the lesson: respect your elders or else suffer the consequences. Boy, you guys are laying it on thick.
WU: chuckles Perhaps you are only hearing what you need to hear.
Jay stops, bearing a suspicious look.
NYA: What is it?
JAY: It's quiet. My family's never quiet.
Jay is now very worried. He runs to a fridge, from which murmurings can be heard. He kicks it open, revealing Ed and Edna, who are tied up and gagged. He rips the tape off their mouths.
JAY: What happened? Who did this?
EDNA: Sweetheart, you came!
ED: Oh, you gotta get out of here. You shouldn't have come, it's the ssssnakes!
WU: The bite of the Fangpyre! Once they sink their teeth, their venom can turn anything into a serpent. It's only a matter of time before the full transformation is complete.
Hisses are heard. Cole looks up to see a Sepentine wrecking ball with a face.
COLE: Uh, is that wrecking ball staring at me?
JAY: Duck!
They jump out of the way as the ball comes down, Jay saving his parents.
ED: Thankssss, sssson.
Wu spots Lloyd standing on a pile of tyres next to a Serpentine stereo.
WU: Lloyd!
LLOYD: Hello, uncle. Looks like we're not the only family reunion. I'm glad you brought the Ninja. I could use some help taking out the trash. Muahaha!
NYA: If we want to turn your parents back, we need the antivenom in the staff.
COLE: Second dose, to the dirt!
Everyone plunges to the ground as the wrecking ball strikes again.
KAI: Easier said than done, sis. We're bit outnumbered.
JAY: Nobody messes with my family. Ninja, go!
KAI, COLE and ZANE: Ninja, go!
The ninja attack the snakes. Nya beats up some snakes while Wu plays his magic flute.
NYA: I don't know, Sensei. I think we make a pretty good duet.
Lloyd switches on the stereo, which plays some loud rock music, drowning out Wu's flute-playing.
WU: Young nephew, must I teach you whose side you should be on?
LLOYD: turning up the volume Sorry, uncle. Can't hear you!
A Fangpyre tries to bite Wu, but luckily Edna saves him by hitting the snake with a saucepan.
ED: Yeah, way to go, Edna!
NINJA: Ninja, go!
A giant Jay-shaped Fangpyre robot appears.
JAY: Ah! What is that thing?
ED: It was supposed to be in your honor, son, but do you like it?
JAY: Thanks, but no thanks.
The robot strikes with its giant nunchucks, and the ninja narrowly avoid it.
COLE: Why'd you have to be born in a Junkyard?
JAY: I know. Tell me about it.
The wrecking ball strikes again. The ninja go to ground. When the ball goes away, Jay is missing.
KAI: Uh, wasn't there four of us?
Jay is hanging onto the wrecking ball. He jumps into the cockpit of the crane and kicks out the Fangpyre operating it.
JAY: Let's see if I can work this.
The robot attacks Cole.
COLE: Don't worry, I got it.
Jay hits the robot with the wrecking ball.
COLE: I told you, I had it.
LLOYD: Retreat!
Lloyd and Fangtom start to leave on the Rattlecopter.
NYA: He's getting away with the staff!
JAY: Right now would be a good time to have those Dragons
ED: It'ssss okay, sssson.
WU: There is still a way.
JAY: How?
WU: Part of reaching your own full potential is understanding your weapon's potential. Once it is in tune with a focused heart, its secrets and powers can be unlocked.
JAY: Oh, this is not the time to be cryptic.
ZANE: He's saying our weapons are vehicles themselves.
KAI: Don't tell me I have to ride this thing like a broom stick.
WU: Jay, concentrate on unlocking your Golden Weapon. Let your heart guide you. Imagine you're taking flight.
Jay turns his weapon into a blue plane.
JAY: Whoa! Haha, did I just do that?
Kai then turns his sword into a motorbike; Zane turns his shurikens into a snowspeeder; Cole turns his scythe into a car.
COLE: Ha! I hate to hurt Rocky's feelings, but I think he's just been replaced.
The ninja race off to catch up with Lloyd.
NYA: Does your flute turn into anything?
WU: I wish.
Jay flies past Lloyd.
LLOYD: Whoa, what the heck was that?
JAY: Oops, haha. Overshot that a little. turning around Let's see what this baby can do.
He hits a button, causing the jet to spiral out of control and the cockpit to open. He flies past Fangtom and Lloyd the other way, taking the Fangpyre staff in the process.
FANGTOM #2: Duck! The Staff!
JAY: I got it? I got it!
He celebrates, but then his jet disappears and his starts falling.
KAI: Jay! You have to concentrate!
JAY: I can't!
COLE: I think we're gonna have to catch him.
KAI: I got him.
COLE: No, I got him!
ZANE: He's mine!
The ninja's vehicles crash into each other and disappear. Thankfully, Jay is rescued by his parents' car, which Nya is driving.
JAY: Heh, nice.
EDNA: Aw, I knew I liked thissss girl.
FANGTOM #2: Everyone!
FANGTOM #1: Attack!
The ninja struggle to activate their weapons.
KAI: Huh? Why isn't this thing working?
WU: Your weapon is merely an extension of your mind. If your mind is immobile, so is your weapon.
ED: Oh, boy. Oh, gosh. Oh, golly, oh, duh. Get in, boys!
They get into the car.
JAY: We have to get hack to headquarters!
LLOYD: Go! They're getting away!
The team return to the Bounty.
Scene Eight: Destiny's Bounty
NYA: Come with me. Once we reverse the venom, we can fix you.
JAY: Man the stations, everyone!
KAI: Jay, we better hurry.
JAY: I've been waiting for this moment.
He presses the button, but nothing happens.
KAI: They're gaining on us!
ED: Bottoms, up!
Ed and Edna drinks antivenom, which turns them back into humans.
ED: Oh, that's good.
JAY: Ugh, I don't get what's wrong. I spent forever on this. It's supposed to work!
ED: Uh, son? Maybe I can help?
JAY: Dad! You're okay!
ED: Yeah, darn tooting. Oh, let's have a look.
He fixes the button.
Oh, yeah. Uh-huh. Oh, that should do it. Now try it.
Jay presses the button. The Bounty opens up its wings and rocket boosters and flies away.
LLOYD: No, no, no, no!
As the ship tilts backwards, the staff falls out and lands in the sand. The helicopter flies down and Fangtom picks it up.
FANGTOM #2: These Ninja...
FANGTOM #1: ...they must be stopped.
LLOYD: Oh, tell me about it.
Back on the Bounty...
JAY: We'll get you back to the Junkyard just as soon as we see the coast is clear. But stay as long as you'd like. It's nice having you here.
ED: Oh, take a note Edna: of all our inventions, this one is our greatest!
EDNA: I already know, dear.
She throws away her notepad, and the three embrace, observed by Sensei Wu.
End credits