Welcome to the session
Yes have a seat get comfortable
Its alright take your time
So.. you wanna tell me whats up?
Let me tell you how this thing started
How I met this sexy girl and left her broken hearted
Pretty young guy like me, you know how we do
All I thought about was sex money, weed ooh
Damn..
Man I had it all
I couldn't even catch her at the time of her fall
"I love you, I love you" thats what I kept saying
A kid in the mind constantly lying and playing
Not being faithful and going insane
Losing my cool everyday I complain
Doing the same thing over again damn
I needed to change, I needed to change
Losing my cool everyday I complain
Doing the same thing over again damn
I needed to change
I needed to change love
I needed to change
I needed to change. x2
For you, For you
Damn
I wish I could have it all back
She don't even trust me no more and I can't even blame her on that. x2
See
Let me tell you how this thing started, how I met this sexy girl and left her broken hearted
Now she ain't even with me, cause her plane departed
Now I'm back to square one where it all started
I see
Firstly I know its not easy for you, opening up about your feelings your issues, not to anyone
As you told me before but thats why I'm here
Told you let every bit of your emotions out
Its alright take your time
But I'll need you to relax, sit back and your eyes closed
Talk me through it, just be at ease and talk me through it
See it started off with a stare then came words
"hey you over there"
You said "who?" and I pointed at you
You were like "me" and I was like "you"
Looking around like you had no clue, saying "what you want from me you?"
I was "I just want to introduce.. myself I'm Swisha and you?"
She was "I ain't even got time"
I was like "hold up girl you're so fine, man your face is way too beautiful and you got a nice behind"
She kmt'd and told me whatever that I'm trying I won't succeed
I said "baby please listen to me, I just want to get your phone number b. thats all"
She was like "oh boy, who the hell do I look like boy?
Do I look like the type of girl that goes around giving her number boy. No!
So I suggest you go somewhere else and leave me alone"
But I said "hold up girl don't go, at least let me walk you down this road. It ain't safe"
She said "nah boy you ain't safe. I met plenty of guys like you and all you know how to do is heartbreak, and lying every single time that its your birthday and you want cake
Well guess what me and you are never going on a date"
Ha! That's funny
Well here's the point of my story
If I kept trying hard the way that I got her, then I wouldn't have made it easy to talk to girls on the daily
Because I worked hard to get her so...
Leaving her shouldn't be easy
But now I gotta let go
Uhh..
Love Matters
This Love Matters
Love Matters
Boy, What is Love Matters?
Love Matters
Love Matters
What is Love?
These feelings I've got for ya, my love for ya
Love Matters, Matters
Love Matters
What Is Love?
What Is Love?