The boy raps over movie scores. His last rap was over the movie score for Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind.
Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind
She say she never fell in love with a Superman
Christian, Muslim, Protestant, Lutheran
I told her that being a mortal is the portal
To the true nature of growth; the Christlike Buddha man
That's why I never spit the traditional garbage of a knife fight
Bright lights, white ice to the fans
The radio is just a stereo, like a house ain't a home
And a chair is just a chair, ask Luther Van
Go to work; go to church let your dreams die
Bow tie, Final Call, and a bean pie
Yarmulke for Hanukkah, wish list for Christmas
This is the gist of the life that we lead, why?
So you can fit in, with the closed-minded in the sit-ins
And get clothes-lined in the ed-end
I could care less about a plaque and Bid-enz
And gettin' Punked on TV by my friends
Don't get a nigga wrong
I get tempted by the rewards that all come along with making nigga songs
But what does it mean if I'm a Muslim and you a Jew
And because of that alone we don't get along
And when you talk like this, and try to walk like this
The radio stations'll never put a nigga on
Just Mims, just 50, just Wayne, just Jeezy
Dem Franchize Boyz, and Jimmy Jones
Fuck that, fuck rap this god-hop
Kingdom music for the hard rocks
I'mma spit it 'til TRL get it and Hot 97 hit a nigga with a bomb drop
Ask Flex, ask Slay, ask Whoo Kid
Just Blaze said Jay is the new kid
I took Eternal Sunshine and I looped it
No drums no hook just new shit
Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind
...Because He Broke the Rules
Grandpa Joe: Wh-When does he get it?
Willy Wonka: He doesn't
Grandpa Joe: Why not?
Willy Wonka: Because he broke the rules
Grandpa Joe: What rules? We didn't see any rules, did we, Charlie?
Willy Wonka:  Wrong, sir! Wrong! Under section 37B of the contract signed by him, it states quite clearly that all offers shall become null and void if - and you can read it for yourself in this photostatic copy:
Willy Wonka: I, the undersigned, shall forfeit all rights, privileges, and licenses herein and herein contained, et cetera, et cetera... Fax mentis incendium gloria cultum, et cetera, et cetera... Memo bis punitor delicatum!
Willy Wonka: It's all there, black and white, clear as crystal! You stole fizzy lifting drinks! You bumped into the ceiling which now has to be washed and sterilized, so you get nothing! You lose! Good day, sir!
The handling of a heart's a very delicate art cause it's paper thin
One irrelevant thought that started out as a spark could be a poisonous dart
That leaves a permanent mark, that's ice cold in the day and burns in the dark
And makes you never wanna see her face again
Tee-hee, what a place I'm in
Lead me to the station
A one-way ticket, don't look back
One cold tear that froze and cracked
A whole lot of pain I'm holdin' back
Chav said, "Eff that, roll the sack"
I said, "If my skull was cracked
And blood ran out to the cul-de-sac
That could not match me where I'm at"
My memories flash me there and back
Yup there goes me right there in black
Holdin' hands, not starin' back
She starts cryin' I start denying, it's my fault
And I'm aware of that
Man, in hindsight signs be glarin' back
Where's the map to show you where you're at?
I can hear the crowd yelling, I can smell the tire smoke
I can hear the starter pistol where's the track?
Ring no answer came home late
Jane told Dick she had a date
But they was just chillin' and at that moment
The right brain says to the left just kill em
Make the headlines, make the front page
Wild out in the court house man thrill 'em
They'll say, "The boy dead wrong," but I feel him
Voodoo Man
Voodoo man, chicken bone chicken bone
I can make a thunderstorm from a light rain
My ears start ringing, my nose get bloody
I feel a little bit of pressure on my right brain
Intermission transmission put me in submission
Glistening trapped in the light prison whistling
The Christ told me come closer to the light man
I went blind, woke up in front of a mic stand
Voodoo man, tap dancing in the French Quarter
Walking on water with a scroll in my hand
The blueprints for a disc shaped-like vessel
That was chiseled out of metal off the coast of Japan
Fasting on the top of a mountain out in Tepoztlán
Saw a shiny object floating out of the ocean
I'm sort of like a postman
You can get the message if you want to understand
From the rap Son of Man
...on November 7th saw this disc-shaped object floating above the sea concourse of the United Airlines at O'Hare. Very low in the sky, it was still daylight, very distinct. Didn't look like an airplane, a helicopter, or anything else
Voodoo man, civilize the savage
Criticize the parish
Spreading false doctrine
Terrorize the cleric for carrying on nonsense
Specialized lies to paralyze the conscience
Voodoo man, chit chatter Abracadabra
Spitting out matter while I'm shitting out data
Mmm, chew 'em up shitting out rappers
Sipping Pellegrino while I'm giving out matches
Set yourself on fire
Let the wisdom of Elijah purify ya
Take a nigga higher
Sold your soul to the highest buyer
Now you're on the wire talking about two-foot tires
Saying you sell crack
Clapping at cats with macs
But you a liar pants on fire
Same old rugged cross
Different crucified messiah
FYI
Elijah Muhammad: Don’t get me wrong now. Don’t make a mistake in thinking that I’m telling you this was the beginning of the man on the Earth. Fifty thousand years ago is like telling you thirty days ago or ten days ago or five days ago, to the age of the universe. We have no exact record of it but it runs way into the trillions
While you was blowin' X amount of dollars on a bracelet
The sovereign nation of France was openin' they files on the UFO phenomenon: i.e. spaceships
It's just the facts, Jack may as well face it
Every rhyme I write the seal get cracked in the chapter of Revelations
A atom get cracked in the blackness of meditation
Mysterious shit
Call me Jay Dogon, I'm on some serious shit
Scholars wonder why don't he bust
Allah blessed me with a Midas-y touch
Everything I lay to hands turn to Ethiopian gold: shiny and buffed
I got a firm understandin' on the minus and plus
So I ain't got time to argue with a rapper 'bout how he ain't got rhymes
That's fuckin' with mine's
I'm trying to kill Lucifer, so if I have to brake
Cause a rapper in my face tellin' me that he the great
You can bet a shiny nickel I'll blast his motherfuckin' ass way past Jupiter
You couldn't be stupider
Fuckin' with the nuclear
Mayan, Aztec lion
Asiatic Blackman from Zion
Quetzalcoatl supreme, lettin' off steam
Dimethyltryptamine make a man dream
But y'all would much rather hear me rappin' 'bout trash
The size of Erykah's ass, blunts and cash
We need savin'
Minds are consumed with swine we need bathin'
Willy Wonka: There it goes. Hold on tight. I'm not exactly sure what's going to happen. Faster, faster...if we don't pick up enough speed, we'll never get through
Charlie: Get through what?
Willy Wonka: Ah-ha!
Grandpa Joe: You mean we're going...
Willy Wonka: Up and out!
Grandpa Joe: But this roof is made of glass. It'll shatter
Into a thousand pieces. We'll be cut to ribbons!
Willy Wonka: Probably.  Hold on, everybody. Here it comes!
Alfred Borden: Are you watching closely?