Take ’em up, take ’em out, bring ’em out dead
Shine ’em up, shine ’em up, shine a bald head
One gun, two gun, three gun, four
You’re mine, it’s all about crime
Onyx! Onyx!
It’s time to get live, live, live like a wire
I set a whole choir on fire 
Well done on the grill, Chyskillz kills
The no frills that try to diss me, they get crispy
And that, get back I attack tracks
Cause they can burn in hell shit for all that I care 
Beware the bald heads, the dreads dead if they there 
Stick ups assassin,’ tracks a new reaction
Onyx is wreckin’ shit, slip slide step quick
Super on the tenant, the kids crash like a rented
The shit they write is black and white, well mine’s got
Mad color, ain’t that right my blunt brother?
(Word up! Raze it up!
We do it with the crew that don’t give a fuck!)
So throw ya gunz in the air
Throw ya gunz in the air
Buck buck like ya don’t care
Uh oh, heads up! Cause we droppin’ some shit on ya now
Chyskillz, Onyx, Tec-9 for a while
Keep ya eyes open in a fight, I’m a swell ’em
The hardcore style, rowdy and wild hits I’ma sell ’em 
To all competition slide back then listen
I’m kickin’ all that shit to the doormat
Claimin’ this domain, cause mad pains
Blood stains, long range 
Crazy clips, I sink ships, cut faces like a pirate
I’ve never caught a slug for the mad shit that I did
 You got the word so observe
I shatter and splatter bodies and bones and bust nerves
 I always leave my barrel smokin’
Throw ya gunz in the air
And buck buck like ya just don’t care
Just throw ya gunz in the air
And buck buck like ya just don’t care
Just throw ya gunz in the air
And buck buck like ya just don’t care
Just throw ya gunz in the air
And buck buck like ya just don’t care
I hate your fuckin’ guts, and I hope that you die 
Sticky Fingaz’ name and my life is a lie
Plus I’m havin’ a bad day so stay outta my way
Just in the nick of time, I commit the perfect crime
Rip my heart out my chest, put it right into a rhyme 
I don’t feel pain cause it's all in the mind
And what’s mines is mines, and yours is mine
Don’t fuckin’ blink or I’mma rob yo’ ass blind
Onyx, is rippin’ shit, I got the Tec-9
So what the bumba clot, boy, buck-buck, buck-buck
It’s a ca– tastrophe, fuckin’ with me G
I’m a bald head with a knife
I want your money or your life
So, so, so, so
Throw ya gunz in the air
And buck-buck like ya just don’t care
Just throw ya gunz in the air
And buck-buck like ya just don’t care
Just throw ya gunz in the air
And buck-buck like ya just don’t care
Just throw ya gunz in the air
And buck-buck like ya just don’t care
We the motherfuckin’ Onyx!
Ayyo, DS, man, we gonna
Come get you out of jail man, fuck that
We got the bail! We got the bail!
We gonna break you out man, fuck that
 We the fuck up out of this piece