Two ELIZABETHANS passing time in a place without any visible character. They are well-dressed - hats, cloaks,
sticks and all. Each of them has a large leather money bag. Guildenstern's bag is nearly empty. Rosencrantz's bag
is nearly full. The reason being: they are betting on the toss of a coin, in the following manner: Guildenstern
 takes a coin out of his bag, spins it, letting it fall. Rosencrantz  studies it,
announces it as "heads"  and puts it into his own bag. Then they repeat the process. They have
apparently been doing it for some time. The run of "heads" is impossible, yet ROS betrays no surprise at all -
he feels none. However he is nice enough to feel a little embarrassed attaking so much money off his friend. Let
that be his character note. GUIL is well alive to the oddity of it. He is not worried about the money, but he is
worried by the implications ; aware but not going to panic about it - his character note.
GUIL sits. ROS stands .
GUIL spins. ROS studies coin.
ROS: Heads.
Heads.
ROS: Heads.
Heads.
Heads.
GUIL : There is an art to the building up of suspense.
ROS: Heads.
GUIL : Though it can be done by luck alone.
ROS: Heads.
GUIL: If that's the word I'm after.
ROS : Seventy-six love.
(GUIL gets up but has nowhere to go. He spins another coin over his shoulder without looking at it, his
attention being directed at his environment or lack of it.)
Heads.
GUIL: A weaker man might be moved to re-examine his faith, if in nothing else at least in the law of
probability.
ROS: Heads.
(GUIL, examining the confines of the stage, flips over two more coins, as he does so, one by one of course. ROS
announces each of them as "heads".)
GUIL : The law of probability, as it has been oddly asserted, is something to do with the proposition
that if six monkeys ... if six monkeys were...
ROS: Game?
GUIL: Were they?
ROS: Are you?
GUIL : Games.  The law of averages, if I have got this right, means that if six
monkeys were thrown up in the air for long enough they would land on their tails about as often as they would land
on their -
ROS: Heads. 
GUIL: Which at first glance does not strike one as a particularly rewarding speculation, in either sense, even
without the monkeys. I mean you wouldn't bet on it. I mean I would, but you wouldn't... 
ROS: Heads.
GUIL: Would you? 
ROS: Heads.
Heads.  Getting a bit of a bore, isn't it?
GUIL : A bore?
ROS: Well...
GUIL: What about suspense?
ROS : What suspense?
GUIL: It must be the law of diminishing returns... I feel the spell about to be broken. (Energising himself
somewhat.)
(He takes out a coin, spins it high, catches it, turns it over on to the back of his other hand, studies the coin –
and tosses it to ROS. His energy deflates and he sits.)
Well, it was a even chance... if my calculations are correct.
ROS: Eighty-five in a row - beaten the record!
GUIL: Don't be absurd.
ROS: Easily!
GUIL : Is the it, then? Is that all?
ROS: What?
GUIL: A new record? Is that as far as you prepared to go?
ROS: Well...
GUIL: No questions? Not even a pause?
ROS: You spun it yourself.
GUIL: Not a flicker of doubt?
ROS : Well, I won - didn't I?
GUIL : And if you'd lost? If they'd come down against you, eighty -five times, one after
another, just like that?
ROS : Eighty-five in a row? Tails?
GUIL: Yes! What would you think?
ROS : Well...  Well, I'd have a good look at your coins for a start!
GUIL : I'm relieved. At least we can still count on self-interest as a predictable factor... I suppose
it's the last to go. Your capacity for trust made me wonder if perhaps... you, alone...
 Touch.
: We have been spinning coins together since -  This is
not the first time we spun coins!
ROS: Oh no - we've been spinning coins for as long as I remember.
GUIL: How long is that?
ROS: I forget. Mind you - eighty-five times!
GUIL: Yes?
ROS: It'll take some time beating, I imagine.
GUIL: Is that what you imagine? Is that it? No fear?
ROS: Fear?
GUIL : Fear! The crack that might flood your brain with light!
ROS: Heads... 
(GUIL sits despondently. He takes a coin, spins it, lets it fall between his feet. He looks at it, picks it up;
throws it to ROS, who puts it in his bag.)
(GUIL takes another coin, spins it, catches it, turns it over on to his other hand, looks at it, and throws it to ROS
who puts it in his bag.)
(GUIL tales a third coin, spins it, catches it in his right hand, turns it over on to his loft wrist, lobs it in the air,
catches it with his left hand, raises his left leg, throws the coin up under it, catches it and turns it over on to the
top of his head, where it sits. ROS comes, looks at it, puts it in his bag.)
ROS: I'm afraid -
GUIL: So am I.
ROS: I'm afraid it isn't your day.
GUIL: I'm afraid it is.
ROS: Eighty-nine.
GUIL: It must be indicative of something, besides the redistribution of wealth.  List of possible
explanations. One: I'm willing it. Inside where nothing shows, I'm the essence of a man spinning double-headed
coins, and betting against himself in private atonement for an unremembered past. 
ROS: Heads.
GUIL: Two: time has stopped dead, and a single experience of one coin being spun once has been repeated
ninety times...  On the whole, doubtful. Three: divine intervention,
that is to say, a good turn from above concerning him, cf. children of Israel, or retribution from above concerning
me, cf. Lot's wife. Four: a spectacular vindication of the principle that each individual coin spun individually (he
spins one) is as likely to come down heads as tails and therefore should cause no surprise that each individual
time it does. 
ROS: I've never known anything like it!
GUIL: And syllogism: One, he has never known anything like it. Two: he has never known anything to write
home about. Three, it's nothing to write home about... Home... What's the first thing you remember?
ROS: Oh, let's see...The first thing that comes into my head, you mean?
GUIL: No - the first thing you remember.
ROS: Ah.  No, it's no good, it's gone. It was a long time ago.
GUIL : You don't get my meaning. What is the first thing after all the things you've forgotten?
ROS: Oh. I see.  I've forgotten the question.
GUIL: How long have you suffered from a bad memory?
ROS: I can't remember.
GUIL: Are you happy?
ROS: What?
GUIL: Content? At ease?
ROS: I suppose so.
GUIL: What are you going to do now?
ROS: I don't know. What do you want to do?
GUIL: I have no desires. None.  There was a messenger... that's right. We were sent
for.  Syllogism the second: one: probability is a factor which operates
within natural forces. Two, probability is not operating as a factor. Three, we are now within un-, sub- or
supernatural forces. Discuss.  Not too heatedly.
ROS: I'm sorry, I - What's the matter with you?
GUIL: A scientific approach to the examination of phenomena is a defence against the pure emotion of fear.
Keep tight hold and continue while there's time. Now - counter to the previous syllogism: tricky one, follow me
carefully, it may prove a comfort. If we postulate, and we just have, that within un-, sub- or supernatural forces the
probability is that the law of probability will not operate as a factor, then we must accept that the
probability of the first part will not operate as a factor, in which case the law of probability will operate as a factor
within un-, sub- or supernatural forces. And since it obviously hasn't been doing so, we can take it that we are
not held within un-, sub- or supernatural forces after all; in all probability, that is. Which is a great relief to me
personally.  Which is all very well, except that - 
We have been spinning coins together since I don't know when, and in all that time  I don't
suppose either of us was more than a couple of gold pieces up or down. I hope that doesn't sound surprising
because it's very unsurprisingness is something I am trying to keep hold of. The equanimity of your average
pitcher and tosser of coins depends upon a law, or rather a tendency, or let us say a probability, or at any rate a
mathematically calculable chance, which ensures that he will not upset himself by losing too much nor upset
his opponent by winning too often. This made for a kind of harmony and a kind of confidence. It related the
fortuitous and ordained into a reassuring union which we recognised as nature. The sun came up about as often as
it went down, in the long run, and a coin showed heads about as often as it showed tails. Then a messenger
arrived. We had been sent for. Nothing else happened. Ninety-two coins sun consecutively have come down heads
ninety-two consecutive times... and for the last three minutes on the wind of a windless day I have heard the
sound of drums and flute...
ROS : Another curious scientific phenomenon is the fact that the fingernails grow after
death, as does the beard.
GUIL: What?
ROS : Beard!
GUIL: But you're not dead.
ROS : I didn't say they started to grow after death!  The fingernails also grow before
birth, though not the beard.
GUIL: What?
ROS : Beard! What's the matter with you?  The toenails, on the other hand, never grow at
all.
GUIL : The toenails never grow at all?
ROS: Do they? It's a funny thing - I cut my fingernails all the time, and every time I think to cut them, they need
cutting. Now, for instance. And yet, I never, to the best of my knowledge, cut my toenails. They ought to be curled
under my feet by now, but it doesn't happen. I never think about them. Perhaps I cut them absent-mindedly,
when I'm thinking of something else.
GUIL : Do you remember the first thing that happen today?
ROS : I woke up, I suppose.  Oh - I've got it now - that man, a foreigner, he woke us up -
GUIL: A messenger. 
ROS: That's it - pale sky before dawn, a man standing on his saddle to bang on the shutters - shouts - What's all
the row about?! Clear off! – but then he called our names. You remember that - this man woke us up.
GUIL: Yes.
ROS: We were sent for.
GUIL: Yes.
ROS: That's why we're here.  Travelling.
GUIL: Yes.
ROS : It was urgent - a matter of extreme urgency, a royal summons, his very words: official
business and no questions asked - lights in the stable-yard; saddle up and off headlong and hotfoot across the
land, our guides outstripped in breakneck pursuit of our duty! Fearful lest we come too late.
GUIL: Too late for what?
ROS: How do I know? We haven't got there yet.
GUIL: Then what are we doing here, I ask myself.
ROS: You might well ask.
GUIL: We better get on.
ROS: You might well think.
GUIL: Without much conviction; we better get on.
ROS : Right!  On where?
GUIL: Forward.
ROS : Ah.  Which way do we -  Which way did we - ?
GUIL: Practically starting from scratch... An awakening, a man standing on his saddle to bang on the shutters,
our names shouted in a certain dawn, a message, a summons... A new record for pitch and toss. We have not
been.. picked out... simply to be abandoned... set loose to find our own way... We are entitled to some direction... I
would have thought.
ROS : I say - ! I say -
GUIL: Yes?
ROS: Like a band.  It sounded like - a band.
Drums.
GUIL: Yes.
ROS : It couldn't have been real.
GUIL: "The colours red, blue and green are real. The colour yellow is a mystical experience shared by everybody"
- demolish.
ROS : It must have been thunder. Like drums...
GUIL: A man breaking his journey between one place and another at a third place of no name, character,
population or significance, sees a unicorn cross his path and disappear. That in itself is startling, but there
are precedents for mystical encounters of various kinds, or to be less extreme, a choice of persuasions to put it
down to fancy; until - "My God," says the second man, "I must be dreaming, I thought I saw a unicorn." At
which point, a dimension is added that makes the experience as alarming as it will ever be. A third witness, you
understand, adds no further dimension but only spreads it thinner, and a fourth thinner still, and the more
witnesses there are, the thinner it gets and the more reasonable it becomes until it is as thin as reality, the name we
give to the common experience... "Look, look" recites the crowd. "A horse with an arrow in its forehead! It
must have been mistaken for a deer."
ROS : I knew all along it was a band.
GUIL : He knew all along it was a band.
ROS: Here they come!
GUIL : I'm sorry it wasn't the unicorn. It would have been nice to
have unicorns.
. Two pull a cart piled up with props and
belongings. There is also a DRUMMER, a HORN-PLAYER and a FLAUTIST. The SPOKESMAN 
has no instrument. He brings up the rear and is the first to notice them.)
PLAYER: Halt!
 An audience!
Don't move!
Perfect! A lucky thing we came along.
ROS: For us?
PLAYER: Let us hope so. But to meet two gentlemen on the road – we would not hope to meet them off it.
ROS: No?
PLAYER: Well met, in fact, and just in time.
ROS: Why's that?
PLAYER: Why, we grow rusty and you catch us at the very point of decadence - by this time tomorrow we
might have forgotten everything we ever knew. That's a thought, isn't it?  We'd be back
where we started - improvising.
ROS: Tumblers, are you?
PLAYER: We can give you a tumble if that's your taste and times being what they are... Otherwise, for a jingle
of coin we can do you a selection of gory romances, full of fine cadence and corpses, pirated from Italian;
and it doesn't take much to make a jingle - even a single coin has music in it.
Tragedians, at your command.
ROS: My name is Guildenstern, and this is Rosencrantz.
 I'm sorry - his name's Guildenstern, and I'm Rosencrantz.
PLAYER: A pleasure. We've played to bigger, of course, but quality counts for something. I recognised you at
once -
ROS: And who are we?
PLAYER: - as fellow artists.
ROS: I thought we were gentlemen.
PLAYER: For some of us it is performance, for others, patronage. They are two sides of the same coin, or, let
us say, being as there are so many of us, the same side of two coins.  Don't clap too loudly -
it's a very old world.
ROS: What is your line?
PLAYER: Tragedy, sir. Deaths and disclosures, universal and particular, denouements both unexpected and
inexorable, transvestite melodrama on all levels including the suggestive. We transport you into the world of
intrigue and illusion... clowns, if you like, murderers - we can do you ghosts and battles, on the skirmish levels,
heroes, villains, tormented lovers - set pieces in the poetic vein; we can do you rapiers or rape or both, by all
means, faithless wives and ravished virgins - flagrante delicto at a price, but that comes under realism for which
there are special terms. Getting warm, am I?
ROS : Well, I don't know...
PLAYER: It costs little to watch, and little more if you happen to get caught up in the action, if that's you taste and
times being what they are.
ROS: What are they?
PLAYER: Indifferent.
ROS: Bad?
PLAYER: Wicked. Now what precisely is your pleasure?  Gentlemen, disport
yourselves.  There! See anything you like?
ROS : What do they do?
PLAYER: Let your imagination run riot. They are beyond surprise.
ROS: And how much?
PLAYER: To take part?
ROS: To watch.
PLAYER: Watch what?
ROS: A private performance.
PLAYER: How private?
ROS: Well, there are only two of us. Is that enough?
PLAYER: For an audience, disappointing. For voyeurs, about average.
ROS: What's the difference?
PLAYER: Ten guilders.
ROS : Ten guilders!
PLAYER: I mean eight.
ROS: Together?
PLAYER: Each. I don't think you understand -
ROS: What are you saying?
PLAYER: What am I saying - seven.
ROS: Where have you been?
PLAYER: Roundabout. A nest of children carries the custom of the town. Juvenile companies, they are the
fashion. But they cannot match our repertoire... we'll stoop to anything if that's your bent... (He regards ROS
meaningfully but ROS returns the stare blankly.)
ROS: They'll row up.
PLAYER : There's one being born every minute. (To
TRAGEDIANS.) On-ward!
(The TRAGEDIANS start to resume their burdens and their journey. GUIL
stirs himself at last.)
GUIL: Where are you going?
PLAYER: Ha-alt!
Home, sir.
GUIL: Where from?
PLAYER: Home. We're travelling people. We take our chances where we find them.
GUIL: It was the chance, then?
PLAYER: Chance?
GUIL: You found us.
PLAYER: Oh yes.
GUIL: You were looking?
PLAYER: Oh no.
GUIL: Chance, then.
PLAYER: Or fate.
GUIL: Yours or ours?
PLAYER: It could hardly be one without the other.
GUIL: Fate, then.
PLAYER: Oh, yes. We have no control. Tonight we play to the court. Or the night after. Or to the tavern. Or not.
GUIL: Perhaps I can use my influence.
PLAYER: At the tavern?
GUIL: At the court. I would say I have some influence.
PLAYER: Would you say so?
GUIL: I have influence yet.
PLAYER: Yet what?
GUIL: I have influence!
 You said something - about getting caught up in the action -
PLAYER : I did! - I did! - You're quicker than your friend...  Now for a handful
of guilders I happen to have a private and uncut performance of the Rape of the Sabine Women - or rather
woman, or rather Alfred -  Get your skirt on, Alfred - (The BOY starts struggling into a female
robe.) ... and for eight you can participate.  ... taking either part. (GUIL
backs.) ... or both for ten.  ... with encores - (GUIL
smashes the PLAYER across the face. The PLAYER recoils. GUIL stands trembling.) 
Get your skirt off, Alfred... 
GUIL : It could have been - it didn't have to be obscene... It could have been - a
bird out of season, dropping bright-feathered on my shoulder... It could have been a tongueless dwarf
standing by the road to point the way... I was prepared. But it's this, isn't it? No enigma, no dignity, nothing
classical, portentous, only this - a comic pornographer and a rabble of prostitutes...
PLAYER : You should have caught us in
better times. We were purists then.  On-ward.
ROS : Excuse me!
PLAYER: Ha-alt!
A-al-l-fred!
ROS: You're not - ah - exclusively players, then?
PLAYER: We're inclusively players, sir.
ROS: So you give - exhibitions?
PLAYER: Performances, sir.
ROS: Yes, of course. There's more money in that, is there?
PLAYER: There's more trade, sir.
ROS: Times being what they are.
PLAYER: Yes.
ROS: Indifferent.
PLAYER: Completely.
ROS: You know I'd no idea -
PLAYER: No -
ROS: I mean, I've heard of - but I've never actually -
PLAYER: No.
ROS: I mean, what exactly do you do?
PLAYER: We keep to our usual stuff, more or less, only inside out. We do on stage the things that are
supposed to happen off. Which is a kind of integrity, if you look on every exit being an entrance somewhere else.
ROS : Well, I'm not really the type of man who - no, but don't hurry off - sit down and tell us about
some of the things people ask you to do -
PLAYER: On-ward!
ROS: Just a minute!
Well, all right - I wouldn't mind seeing - just an idea of the kind of - . What will you do for that? (And
tosses a single coin on the ground between them.)
PLAYER : Leave it lying there. Perhaps when we come
back this way we'll be that muck cheaper.
On!
 What are you playing at?
ROS: Filth! Disgusting - oh, I know the kind of filth you trade in - I'll report you to the authorities - perverts! I
know your game all right, it's all filth!
GUIL : Do you like a bet?
PLAYER: Ha-alt!
PLAYER: What kind of bet do you have in mind?
GUIL: Double or quits.
PLAYER: Well... heads.
(GUIL raises his foot. The PLAYER bends. The TRAGEDIANS crowd round. Relief and congratulations. The
PLAYER picks up the coin. GUIL throws him a second coin.)
GUIL: Again?
GUIL: Heads.
Again.
PLAYER: Heads.
GUIL: Heads.
PLAYER : Tails.
(But it's heads. GUIL picks it up. PLAYER tosses down his last coin by the way of paying it up, and turns away.
GUIL doesn't pick it up; he puts
his foot on it.)
GUIL: Heads.
PLAYER: No!
 They don't like the odds.
GUIL: After six in a row? I'd say they were in your favor.
PLAYER: No.
GUIL : You were right - heads. (Spins it, slaps his
hand on it, on the floor.)
Heads I win.
PLAYER: No.
GUIL : Right again.  Heads I win.
PLAYER: No.
GUIL : And right again.  Heads I win.
PLAYER: No!
GUIL: Would you believe it?  Bet me the year of my birth doubled is an odd
number.
PLAYER: Your birth - !
GUIL: If you don't trust me don't bet with me.
PLAYER: Would you trust me?
GUIL: Bet me then.
PLAYER: My birth?
GUIL: Odd numbers you win.
PLAYER: You're on -
GUIL: Good. Year of your birth. Double it. Even numbers I win, odd numbers I lose. (Silence. An awful
sigh as the TRAGEDIANS realise that any number doubled is even. Then a terrible row as they object. Then a
terrible silence.)
PLAYER: We have no money.
GUIL: Ah. Then what have you got?
Was it for this?
PLAYER: It's the best we've got.
GUIL : Then the times are bad indeed.
The very air stinks.
Come here, Alfred.
: Do you lose often?
Alfred: Yes, sir.
GUIL: Then what could you have to lose?
Alfred: Nothing, sir.
GUIL: Do you like being... an actor?
Alfred: No, sir.
GUIL: You and I, Alfred - we could create a dramatic precedent here.
Come, come, Alfred, this is no way to fill the theatres of Europe.
 Do you know any good plays?
PLAYER: Plays?
ROS : Exhibitions...
GUIL: I thought you were actors.
PLAYER : Oh. Oh, well, we are. We are. But there been much call -
GUIL: You lost. Well, then - one of the Greeks, perhaps? You're familiar with the tragedies of antiquity, are
you? The great homicidal classics? Matri, patri, fratri, sorrori, uxori and it goes without saying -
ROS: Saucy -
GUIL: - Suicidal - hm? Maidens aspiring to godheads -
ROS: And vice versa -
GUIL: Your kind of thing, is it?
PLAYER: Well, no, I can't say it is, really. We're more of the blood, love and rhetoric school.
GUIL: Well, I'll leave the choice to you, if there is anything to choose between them.
PLAYER: They're hardly divisible, sir - well, I can do you blood and love without rhetoric, and I can do you blood
and rhetoric without love, and I can do you all three concurrent or consecutive, but I can't do you love and rhetoric
without blood. Blood is compulsory - they're all blood, you see.
GUIL: Is this what people want?
PLAYER: It's what we do. 
GUIL : Thank you, we'll let you know.
PLAYER : Thirty-eight!
ROS : Position?
PLAYER: Sir?
ROS: One of your - tableaux?
PLAYER: No, sir.
ROS: Oh.
PLAYER  Entrances there
and there .
GUIL: Well... aren't you going to change into costume?
PLAYER: I never change out, sir.
GUIL: Always in character.
PLAYER: That's it.
GUIL: Aren't you going to - come on?
PLAYER: I am on.
GUIL: But if you are on, you can't come on. Can you?
PLAYER: I start on.
GUIL: But it hasn't started. Go on. We'll look out for you.
PLAYER: I'll give you a wave.
(He doesn't move. His immobility is now pointed and getting awkward. Pause. ROS walks up to him till they are
face to face.)
ROS: Excuse me.
(Pause. The PLAYER lifts his downstage foot. It was covering GUIL's coin. ROS puts his foot on the coin.
Smiles.)
Thank you.
GUIL : Come on.
ROS: I say - that was lucky.
GUIL : What?
ROS: It was tails.
(He tosses the coin to GUIL who catches it. Simultaneously - a lighting change sufficient to alter the exterior
mood into interior, but nothing violent.)
And OPELIA runs on in some alarm, holding up her skirts - followed by HAMLET.
Note: The resemblance between HAMLET and The PLAYER is superficial but noticeable.
(OPHELIA has been sewing and she holds the garment. They are both mute.
HAMLET, with his doublet all unbraced, no hat upon his head, his stockings fouled, ungartered and double-gyved
to his ankle, pale as his shirt, his knees knocking each other... and with a look so piteous, he takes her by the
wrist and holds her hard, then he goes to the length of his arm and with his other hand over his brow, falls to such
perusal of her face as he would draw it... At last, with a little shaking of his arm, and thrice his head waving
up and down, he raises a sigh so piteous and profound that it does seem to shatter all his bulk and end his being.
That done he lets her go, and with his head over his shoulder turned, he goes backwards without taking his eyes
off her... she runs off in the opposite direction.)
GUIL: Come on!
CLAUDIUS: Welcome, dear Rosencrantz... (he raises a hand at GUIL while
ROS bows - GUIL bows late and hurriedly.)... and Guildenstern.
(He raises a hand at ROS while GUIL bows to him - ROS is still straightening up from his previous bow and
half way up he bows down again. With his head down, he twists to look at GUIL, who is on the way up.)
Moreover that we did much long to see you,
The need we have to use you did provoke
Our hasty sanding.
Something have you heard
Of Hamlet's transformation, so call it,
Sith nor th'exterior nor inward man
Resembles that it was. What it should be,
More than his father's death, that thus hath put him,
So much from th'understanding of himself,
I cannot dream of. I entreat you both
That, being of so young days brought up with him
And sith so neighbored to his youth and haviour
That you ... safe your rest here on our court
Some little time, so by your companies
To draw him on to pleasures and to gather
So much as from occasion you may glean,
Whether ought to us unknown afflicts him thus,
That opened lies within our remedy.
GERTRUDE: Good  gentlemen...
Pleasant and helpful to him.
GERTRUDE: Ay, amen!
(ROS and GUIL move towards and downstage wing. Before they get there,
POLONIUS enters. They stop and bow to him. He nods and hurries upstage to
CLAUDIUS. They turn to look at him but lose interest and come down to
footlights. POLINIUS meanwhile calling to CLAUDIUS.)
POLONIUS: The ambassadors from Norway, my good lord, are joyfully
returned.
CLAUDIUS: Thou still hast been the father of good news.
POLONIUS: Have I, my lord? Assure you, my good liege,
I hold my duty as I hold my soul,
Both to my God and to my gracious King;
And I do think or else this brain of mine
Hunts not the trail of policy for sure
As it hath used to do, that I have found
The very cause of Hamlet's lunacy...
ROS: I want to go home.
GUIL: Don't let them confuse you.
ROS: I'm out of my step here -
GUIL: We'll soon be home and high - dry and home - I'll -
ROS: It's all over my depth -
GUIL: I'll hie you home and -
ROS: - out of my head -
GUIL: - dry you high and -
ROS : - over my step over my head body! - I tell you it's all stopping to a death, it's boding to a
depth, stepping to a head, it's all heading to a dead stop –
GUIL : There!... and we'll soon be home and dry... and high and dry...  Has it ever
happened to you that all of a sudden and for no reason at all you haven't the faintest idea how to spell the word
- "wife" - or "house" - because when you write it down you just can't remember ever having seen those letters in
that order before...?
ROS: I remember...
GUIL: Yes?
ROS: I remember there were no questions.
GUIL: There were always questions. To exchange one set for another is no great matter.
ROS: Answers, yes. There were answers to everything.
GUIL: You've forgotten.
ROS : I haven't forgotten - how I used to remember my own name - and yours, oh ): I haven't forgotten -
how I used to remember my own name - and yours, oh yes! There were answers everywhere you looked. There
was no question about it - people knew who I was and if they didn't they asked and I told them.
GUIL: You did, the trouble is each of them is... plausible, without being instinctive. All your life you live so
close to truth, it becomes a permanent blur in the corner of your eye, and when something nudges it into
outline it is like being ambushed by a grotesque. A man standing in his saddle in the half-lit half-alive dawn
banged on the shutters and called two names. He was just a hat and the cloak levitating in the grey plume of his
own breath, but when he called we came. That much is certain - we came. ROS: Well I can tell you I'm sick to
death of it. I don't care one way or another, so why don't you make up your mind.
GUIL: We can't afford anything quite so arbitrary. Nor did we come all this way for a christening. All that -
preceded us. But we are comparatively fortunate; we might have been left to sift the whole field of human
nomenclature, like two blind men looting a bazaar for their own portraits... At least we are presented with
alternatives.
ROS: Well as from now -
GUIL: - But not choice.
ROS: You made me look ridiculous in there.
GUIL: I looked as ridiculous as you did.
ROS : Consistency is all I ask!
GUIL : Give us this day our daily mask.
ROS : I want to go home.  Which way did we come in? I've lost my sense of direction.
GUIL: The only beginning is birth and the only end is death - if you can't count on that, what can you count on?
ROS: We don't owe anything to anyone.
GUIL: We've been caught up. Your smallest action sets off another somewhere else, and is set off by it. Keep
an eye open, an ear cocked. Tread warily, follow instructions. We'll be all right.
ROS: For how long?
GUIL: Till events have played themselves out. There's a logic at work - it's all done for you, don't worry. Enjoy it.
Relax. To be taken in hand and led, like being a child again, even without the innocence, a child - It's
like being given a prize, an extra slice of childhood when you least expect it, as a prize for being good, or a
compensation for never having had one... Do I contradict myself?
ROS: I don't remember. What have we got to go on?
GUIL: We have been briefed. Hamlet's transformation. What do you recollect?
ROS: Well, he's changed, hasn't he? The exterior and inward man fails to resemble -
GUIL: Draw him on to pleasures - glean what afflicts him.
ROS: Something more than his father's death -
GUIL: He's always talking about us - there aren't two people living whom he dotes on more than us.
ROS: We cheer him up - find out what's the matter -
GUIL: Exactly, it's the matter of asking the right questions and giving away as little as we can. It's a game.
ROS: And then we can go?
GUIL: And receive such thanks as fits a king's remembrance.
ROS: I like the sound of that. What do you think he means by remembrance?
GUIL: He doesn't forget his friends.
ROS: Wouldn't you care to estimate?
GUIL: Difficult to say, really - come kings tend to be amnesiac, others I suppose - the opposite, whatever that is...
ROS: Yes - but -
GUIL: Elephantine...?
ROS: Hot how long - how much?
GUIL: Retentive - he's a very retentive king, a royal retainer...
ROS: What are you playing at?
GUIL: Words, words. They're all we have to go on.
ROS: Shouldn't we be doing something - constructive?
GUIL: What did you have in mind?... A short, blunt human pyramid...?
ROS: We could go.
GUIL: Where?
ROS: After him.
GUIL: Why? They've got us placed now - if we start moving around, we'll all be chasing each other all night.
ROS : How very intriguing!  I feel like a spectator - an appalling business. The only
thing that makes it bearable is the irrational belief that somebody interesting will come on in a minute...
GUIL: See anyone?
ROS: No. You?
GUIL: No.  What a fine persecution - to be kept intrigued without ever quite being
enlightened...  We've had no practice.
ROS: We could play at questions.
GUIL: What good would that do?
ROS: Practice!
GUIL: Statement! One-love.
ROS: Cheating!
GUIL: How?
ROS: I hadn't started yet.
GUIL: Statement. Two-love.
ROS: Are you counting that?
GUIL: What?
ROS: Are you counting that?
GUIL: Foul! No repetitions. Three-love. First game to...
ROS: I'm not going to play if you're going to be like that.
GUIL: Whose serve?
ROS: Hah?
GUIL: Foul! No grunts. Love-one.
ROS: Whose go?
GUIL: Why?
ROS: Why not?
GUIL: What for?
ROS: Foul! No synonyms! One-all.
GUIL: What in God's name is going all?
ROS: Foul! No rhetoric. Two-one.
GUIL: What does it all add up to?
ROS: Can't you guess?
GUIL: Were you addressing me?
ROS: Is there anyone else?
GUIL: Who?
ROS: How would I know?
GUIL: Why do you ask?
ROS: Are you serious?
GUIL: Was that rhetoric?
ROS: No.
GUIL: Statement! Two-all. Game point.
ROS: What's the matter with you today?
GUIL: When?
ROS: What?
GUIL: Are you deaf?
ROS: Am I dead?
GUIL: Yes or no?
ROS: Is there a choice?
GUIL: Is there a God?
ROS: Foul! No non sequiturs, three-two, one game all.
GUIL : What's your name?
ROS: What's yours?
GUIL: I asked you first.
ROS: Statement. One-love.
GUIL: What's your name when you're at home?
ROS: What's yours?
GUIL: When I'm at home?
ROS: Is it different at home?
GUIL: What home?
ROS: Haven't you got one?
GUIL: Why do you ask?
ROS: What are you driving at?
GUIL : What's your name?!
ROS: Repetition. Two-love. Match point to me.
GUIL : WHO DO YOU THINK YOU ARE?
ROS: Rhetoric! Game and match!  Where's it going to end?
GUIL: That's the question.
ROS: It's all questions.
GUIL: Do you think it matters?
ROS: Doesn't it matter to you?
GUIL: Why should it matter?
ROS: What does it matter why?
GUIL : Doesn't it matter why it matters?
ROS : What's the matter with you?
GUIL: It doesn't matter.
ROS : ... What's the game?
GUIL: What are the rules?
GUIL : Rosencrantz!
ROS : What?
GUIL: There! How was that?
ROS: Clever!
GUIL: Natural?
ROS: Instinctive.
GUIL: Got it in your head?
ROS: I take my hat off you.
GUIL: Shake hands.
ROS: Now I'll try you - Guil - !
GUIL: - Not yet - catch me unawares.
ROS: Right.  Ready?
GUIL : Don't be stupid.
ROS: Sorry.
GUIL : Guildenstern!
ROS : What? 
GUIL: Consistency is all I ask!
ROS : Give us this day our daily week...
ROS: Who was that?
GUIL: Didn't you know him?
ROS: He didn't know me.
GUIL: He didn't see you.
ROS: I didn't see him.
GUIL: We shall see. I hardly knew him, he's changed.
ROS: You could see that?
GUIL: Transformed.
ROS: How do you know?
GUIL: Inside and out.
ROS: I see.
GUIL: He's not himself.
ROS: He's changed.
GUIL: I could see that.  Glean what afflicts him.
ROS: Me?
GUIL: Him.
ROS: How?
GUIL: Question and answer. Old ways are the best ways.
ROS: He's afflicted.
GUIL: You question, I'll answer.
ROS: He's not himself, you know.
GUIL: I'm him, you see.
ROS: Who am I then?
GUIL: You're yourself.
ROS: And he's you?
GUIL: Not a bit of it.
ROS: Are you afflicted?
GUIL: That's the idea. Are you ready?
ROS: Let's go back a bit.
GUIL: I'm afflicted.
ROS: I see.
GUIL: Glean what afflicts me.
ROS: Right.
GUIL: Question and answer.
ROS: How should I begin?
GUIL: Address me.
ROS: My dear Guildenstern!
GUIL : You've forgotten - haven't you?
ROS: My dear Rosencrantz!
GUIL : I don't think you quite understand. What we are attempting is a hypothesis in which I
answer for him, while you ask me questions.
ROS: Ah! Ready?
GUIL: You know what to do?
ROS: What?
GUIL: Are you stupid?
ROS: Pardon?
GUIL: Are you deaf?
ROS: Did you speak?
GUIL : Not now -
ROS: Statement.
GUIL : Not now!  If I had my doubts, or rather hopes, they are dispelled. What could we
possibly have in common except our situation?  Perhaps he'll come back this way.
ROS: Should we go?
GUIL: Why?
ROS : Oh! You mean - you pretend to be him, and I ask you questions!
GUIL : Very good.
ROS: You had me confused.
GUIL: I could see I had.
ROS: How should I begin?
GUIL: Address me.
ROS: My honoured Lord!
GUIL: My dear Rosencrantz!
ROS: Am I pretending to be you, then?
GUIL: Certainly not. If you like. Shall we continue?
ROS: Question and answer.
GUIL: Right.
ROS: Right. My honoured Lord!
GUIL: My dear fellow!
ROS: How are you?
GUIL: Afflicted!
ROS: Really? In what way?
GUIL: Transformed.
ROS: Inside or out?
GUIL: Both.
ROS: I see.  No much new there.
GUIL: Go into details. Delve. Probe the background, establish the situation.
ROS: So - so your uncle is the king of Denmark?
GUIL: And my father before him.
ROS: But surely -
GUIL: You might well ask.
ROS: Let me get it straight. Your father was king. You were his only son. Your father dies. You are of age. Your
uncle becomes king.
GUIL: Yes.
ROS: Unorthodox.
GUIL: Undid me.
ROS: Undeniable. Where were you?
GUIL: In Germany.
ROS: Usurpation, then.
GUIL: He slipped in.
ROS: Which reminds me.
GUIL: Well, it would.
ROS: I don't want to be personal.
GUIL: It's common knowledge.
ROS: Your mother's marriage.
GUIL: He slipped in.
ROS : His body was still warm.
GUIL: So was hers.
ROS: Extraordinary.
GUIL: Indecent.
ROS: Hasty.
GUIL: Suspicious.
ROS: It makes you think.
GUIL: Don't think I haven't though of it.
ROS: And with her husband's brother.
GUIL: They were close.
ROS: She went to him -
GUIL: - Too close -
ROS: - for comfort.
GUIL: It looks bad.
ROS: It adds up.
GUIL: Incest and adultery.
ROS: Would you go so far?
GUIL: Never.
ROS: To sum up: your father, whom you love, dies, you are his heir, you come back to find that hardly was the
corpse cold before his young brother popped on to his throne and into his sheets, thereby offending both legal
and natural practice. Now, why exactly you behaving in this extraordinary manner?
GUIL: I can't imagine.  But all that is well known, common property. Yet he sent for us. And we did
come.
ROS : I say! I heard music -
GUIL: We're here.
ROS: - Like a band - I thought I heard a band.
GUIL: Rosencrantz...
ROS : What?
GUIL : Guildenstern...
ROS : What?
GUIL: Don't you discriminate at all?
ROS : What?
GUIL: Go and see if he's there.
ROS: Who?
GUIL: There.
ROS: Yes.
GUIL: What is he doing?
ROS: Talking.
GUIL: To himself?
Is he alone?
ROS: No.
GUIL: Then he's not talking to himself, is he?
ROS: Not by himself... Coming this way, I think.  Should we go?
GUIL: Why? We're marked now.
(HAMLET enters, backwards, talking, followed by POLONIUS, upstage. ROS and GUIL occupy the two
downstage corners looking upstage.)
HAMLET: ... for you yourself, sir, should be as old as I am if like a crab you could go backwards.
POLONIUS : Though this be madness, yet there is method in it.
Will you walk out of air, my Lord?
HAMLET: Into my grave.
POLONIUS: Indeed, that's out of air.
My lord, I will take my leave of you.
HAMLET: You cannot take from me anything that I will more willingly part withal - except my life, except my life,
except my life...
POLONIUS : Fare you well, my lord.  You go
to seek Lord HAMLET? There he is.
ROS  God save you, sir.
GUIL : My honoured Lord!
ROS: My most dear Lord!
HAMLET: My excellent good friends! How dost thou Guildenstern? (Coming downstage with am arm raised to
ROS, GUIL meanwhile bowing to no greeting.
HAMLET corrects himself. Still to ROS.) Ah Rosencrantz!
(They laugh good naturedly at the mistake. They all meet midstage, turn upside to walk, HAMLET in the middle,
arm over each shoulder.)
HAMLET: Good lads, how do you both?
(A fade out. That is to say, the conversation - see Shakespeare, Act
II, Scene ii - runs down quickly; it is still animated and interspersed with
laughter, but it is overtaken by rising music and fading light.)