*Developing Story*
Industry super heavyweights such as JAY Z, Beyonce, Kanye West, Coldplay, Rihanna, Madonna, and Calvin Harris have all turned their profile blue to support streaming service Tidal, which JAY Z recently purchased. The service launches March 30, 2015.
The artists are performing a ‘Coup d'état’ style campaign to overthrow Spotify, on the eve of its rumoured $16B acquisition.
Mashable.com writes:
Earlier this year, Jay Z bought Aspiro, a Swedish tech company that runs two streaming music services  for $56 million. Monday's announcement will finally reveal what the 45-year-old rap mogul will do with his purchase.
Tidal's website describes the service as such: "Introducing the first music streaming service that combines the best High Fidelity sound quality, High Definition music videos and expertly Curated Editorial."
Consequenceofsound.com writes:
A new high-fidelity streaming music service helmed by Jay Z launches Monday. TIDAL was acquired by the rapper last month as part of a $56 million dollar deal with the Scandinavian platform Aspiro.
Full details of the service will be announced during a press conference on Monday. However, according to TIDAL’s website, it’s “the first music streaming service that combines the best High Fidelity sound quality, High Definition music videos and expertly Curated Editorial.”
There are two paid subscription options: $19.99 a month for high-fidelity audio, and $9.99 for standard quality audio. TIDAL can be streamed on the web, and downloaded for iOS and Android devices.
Several artists have already thrown their support behind TIDAL, changing their Twitter icons to light blue and tweeting the hashtag #TIDALForAll. Among them were Kanye West and Jack White’s Third Man Records
TIDAL joins the ranks of an already crowded streaming music market, which includes Spotify, Rdio, Amazon, Pandora, and Neil Young’s high-fidelity PONO digital store. Additionally, Apple is said to be developing its own service with the assistance of Nine Inch Nails frontman Trent Reznor.
USA Today writes:
Music mogul Jay Z is expected on Monday to unveil his blueprint for high-resolution music streaming service Tidal.
A press invite for an event scheduled for Monday went out last week promising that “Shawn ‘JAY Z’ Carter and special guests will announce a commitment to a new direction for the music industry from both a creative and business perspective.”
The hip-hop icon last month made a $56 million bid for the service and parent company Aspiro through Project Panther Bidco Ltd., which is indirectly-owned by his S. Carter Enterprises. The Scandinavian company Aspiro currently operates two music services, Tidal in the U.S., Canada and the U.K., and WiMP, in Norway, Sweden and other parts of Europe.
The two services will now be operated under the name Tidal worldwide. The event, which will be live-streamed, will unveil “a new chapter” for the global streaming service.
Jay Z’s play with Tidal comes at a tumultuous time for the music streaming market. Apple is reportedly revamping its streaming music plan. The tech giant acquired Beats Music last year for $3 billion, but is now planning a new streaming service to better compete with Spotify, The New York Times reported last week.
Apple had hoped to undercut Spotify on its $9.99 monthly paid tier of service by $2, but music labels would not agree to Apple’s offer for lower licensing fees, sources told the Times.
This is part of an aggressive move by the major labels, specifically Universal, Sony and Warner Music to limit or close free access streaming, says Paul Resnikoff, publisher of Digital Music News.
“They’ve lost faith in the ability of ‘freemium’ to covert enough paid subscribers, where the real money in streaming comes from,” he said. “That explains the refusal to allow a free tier on Apple’s upcoming streaming launch, and now, a refusal to even let Apple offer a lower price point.”
A reason why the music industry might embrace Jay Z and Tidal? It charges $19.99 monthly for unlimited listening of high resolution music — with no free listening tier, although you can get a seven-day free trial.
Tidal’s music quality offerings include 1411 kilobits per second lossless HiFi, which is equivalent to CD sound and considered higher quality than lower resolution levels of Spotify  and iTunes .
Users can access Tidal on Android and iOS devices, computers and some home audio products including Sonos speakers.