When I was just Otis Williams
A young punk getting into mischief
And the only temptation I knew, was the streets
You played hooky from school
So you can't go out to play, yeah
Bum bum bum bum bum
Ooooh
Bum bum bum bum
Mama said for the rest of the week
In your room, you gotta stay, yeah
Child
We were five young bloods growing up in Detriot
All of us came up from the south with our folks
Who were looking for jobs in the auto industry
Country boys, had to change their game quick up North
Now you feel like the whole world's pickin' on you
Now you feel like the whole world's pickin' on you
But deep down inside you know it ain't true
It ain't true, it ain't true
Hey you've been punished 'cause your mother
Wants to raise you the right way, yeah
Bum bum bum bum bum
Ooooh
Bum bum bum bum
You don't care!
Oh child
'Cause you already made up your mind
You want to run away
Where you from country bumpkin?
Who you callin' country bumpkin?
You from Texas, ain't you son?
That's country bumpkin!
Don't come here actin' better than us city boys. You either sang or you join a gang
If you can't do neither than you better learn to run
You a cheat country bumpkin!
I ain't no cheat!
You gonna give me another turn or what?
You're on your way
Oh runaway child, running wild
Oh runaway child, running wild
Now I was raised by my two Gramama's in Texarkana
They are where I got my sense of order and obedience
But when I got to Detroit to live with my Mama, Hazel
That obedience stuff went right out the window
Roaming through the city going nowhere fast
You're on your own at last
Hey, it's getting late, where will you sleep
Running, oh running
Gettin' kinda hungry
You forgot to bring something to eat
Oh, lost with no money, you start to cry
But remember you left home
Wanting to be grown
So dry your weepin' eyes
Otis Williams, you've been sided for being involved in gang activity and robbery
You are hereby sentenced to six months in juvenile detention center
I was only sixteen, it figured this couldn't be the path for the rest of my life
There had to be another way
Siren screamin' down, neon light is flickin'
You want your
Mama
But she's much too far away
She can't hear a word you say
You heard some frightening news on the radio
About little boys running away from home
And their parents don't see them no more
You want to hitch a ride and go home
But your mama told you never trust a stranger
And you don't know which way to go
Streets are dark and deserted
Not a sound nor sign of life
How you long to hear your mother's voice, oh
Run
Otis Williams, you've served six months in juvenile detention
Am I going to see you in my courtroom again?
Judge, I swear to you and God, if you give me another chance
I ain't never going do nothing to make me lose my freedom again
Runaway child, running wild
Runaway child, running wild
You better go back home, where you belong
I was free, never looking back
That was all she wrote for the gang story