New year, new nerdcore
Autodocumentary. Epilogue for modernity
Economic scarcity. Sell the product sparingly
Washington to cherry tree. Chopping block for heresy
Post hoc ergo propter hoc fallacy
Y'all tossin' the term logic 'round carelessly
Iron Eyes Cody with the iron sights
On the cherubs in flight through the perilous fight
This American Life
For every terrorist strike
Think you're so charitable
Sendin’ prayers with your shares and your likes. No!
Presidential motorcade through residential area
Roof like the Popemobile after the JFK hysteria
Government subservience. Son of Mr. Berkowitz
At the rubble of Vesuvius like, "Rub a little dirt in it."
Matamoney Master. Yes indeedy dandy
The rap adventures of Billy and Mandy
I'll grab a feather and tickle your fancy
I'm Hannibal Lecter. Ate the liver with Chianti. 
Bear witness to the Tables Ladders Chair match cheer captain
All cheese sandwich
John Cleese ministry moonwalk backwards
I’m 2Pac Shakur in the Gulag
With Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn ‘bout to throw a tantrum
Steffi Graf tennis fan gettin’ Monica Seles stabbed in the back
At my beck and call, I reckon I can
Inconspicuous in a Mr. Softee with Richard Kuklinski
Had to skedaddle off to the Strip ‘cause the Ritz was too chintzy
Nim Chimpsky. Thin Lizzy leather
Wiggy Jiggy Jed walk
This Fizzy Lifting Drink is fizzy as ever
Legion of Decency cease and desist letter in a cross cut shredder
Another satisfied product tester
Dean Martin Roast with a pair of
Dame Edna Everage glasses on for good measure
Swastika X on the Coexist bumper sticker
Pumpernickel
Golden Gate Bridge jumper bungee recoil boa constrictor
Kubler Ross grief model proved to be nothing more
Than a blindfolded dart at the picture
Aimed at no one in particular
Spell of the Svengali out the sepulcher. The spectacle
I saved it and I stabbed it with my signature
Who’d’ve thought that the practice would make it prison work?
The perfect was impossible
The carrot and the stick and string are singular
Circular. Cyclical. Sickle of death. Yes!
Coogi sweater. Googie architecture
Tryna do market research crumbling under margin pressure
I'ma have to charge you extra. Paywall protected
I think we all learned an important lesson
I've got more on my head than Gorbachev
When I prove how much mightier than the sword my pen is
Lorem ipsum is all your lips have formed
Since the dawn of existence
Just call it women's intuition
See how critical my think is. Blink and you'll miss it
I want an official Red Ryder carbine action
200 shot range model air rifle
Leave the Rothschild chair vacant. No fair trial
You play ball like Jeremy Kyle’s fake smile
Aced finals. Bank teller named Miles. Neanderthal cave bible
Wave. Tidal. David's Bridal
This Patreon gon’ pay for my retirement
Burnin’ all this gas must be bad for the environment
Carbon footprint large as Bigfoot’s is. Pseudoscientist
CGI Fridays. Information superhighway
Your pupils dilate. The goose migrates. The marriage bifurcates
The air in cyberspace. Atmospheric fireplace
The house that Ludwig Wittgenstein built. Spiral staircase
Viral ad campaign. Song sponsored by Squarespace
As Burbank burns down, I keep circulating the tapes
The Virgin Mary’s superfluous claims
What does this schlockmeister have in stock today?
Commemorative memorabilia. The Darjeeling Limited train
Incapable of feeling physical pain. Steel link in the chain
They still think I’m insane. Drill bit in my brain
Drank milk for my bones. Blood spilt out my veins
Heaven’s Gate Away Team patch. Police badge
Backstage pass. Freeform jazz
Disease-transmitting paramecium freeze tag
Keebler elf tree lab
Cheetah print everything in the prefab. Egad!
Will Feral Cats. Jackknife. Fishtail crash
Bikini Atoll missile test gone bad
Okay Google. Stop eavesdropping on my innermost thoughts
And trying to filter what videos I can watch
Based on advertising suitability
The entirety of history culminates in a Shakespearean soliloquy
The most extreme of possibilities
Murder mystery. Inconsistency
Intro to philosophy class crashed for kicks
Humor me. Hip to be
Seven man naked Iraqi stacking imagery
The camera captured it digitally
I think about Abu Ghraib everyday
PTSD PSA. Things won’t be the same
Witness Protection deleted my name
Disappeared from the grid
Grippin’ woodgrain. Grabbin’ grip tape
Massive mistake. Passive aggressive piss-take
Them’s the brizzeaks
Cash the check then check the expiration date
Mansplanation debate. Fan the bra flame
Van der Waals force. Chicken chow mein
Visual soundscapes. Breakin’ Newgrounds since the flash games
Machine from way back. Bounce the track wav
Tron the Baptist. Troll the Catholic Church forums’ admins
Ignore ban reports. Bandwidth bandwagon
Puff the asthmatic dragon
The prosthetic limb lamp on the nightstand standin’
Brandin’. AdSense
Matrix defense. Sabre dance
Dashboard Confessional merch. Marching ants
Martial law. Partial blame
Part man, part shablam
Parkinson's hands to a parallel parking exam
Hang around a star for too long, you start gettin’ tan
David Miscaviage patch. Ooga chaka chant
Mario & Luigi: Superstar Saga for the Gameboy Advance
Spew chunks. Taste soylent spam. Green eggs and ham
Disneyland map. Detective hat
Election night assassination plot. Yes we can
I'll be damned. John Lang
Swan sang Crosby Stills & Nash in the trap
Comedy cavalcade
Avalanche exclamation point. Dick Cavett face
To Limp O Putterfly. Password break
I'm mulletproof
Sold to the subhuman somebody
Who somehow snuck into Sotheby's
Could you stop rapping in front of me?
Senses tingling. Circus Ringling. Participle dangling
21 Nerf gun salute your shorts. All rise for the national pantsing
I'm Daniel Day Lewis as Abraham Lincoln
Bake you a bit of that devil's pie. That Octavia Spencer
That gas and electric. That man's got a death wish
Showed up a couple decades late for my annual check up
Cast as an extra by a crisis actor director
To pass as a victim of a massacre
Two thumbs up to the camera
Solid gold Sacagawea
Swingin’ from the chandelier
This that Sia. This that wouldn't wanna be ya
Zip zap zonomatopoeia. Lumberjack a log o’ logorrhea
Ultra the free encyclopedia. Museum o’ online oddities
Come and see for yourselves what all the fuss is about
All this valley girl spits is the gum in her mouth
The national parks’re closed. The nation's on furlough
Lost my phone. Call my phone using your phone. Expert mode
The president's having iced tea and chewing a Nicorette
And Boehner’s having a glass of Merlot red wine
And smoking a cigarette
Grand bargain. Big deal
Wind turbine pinwheel
Shag rug. Jizz rag congeal
Door slam you awake
Petty theft. Penny farthing bicycle handlebar brake
Checkmate. Kasparov chess castles and crooks
Infinitive split past the editors. Definitive Jux
This isn’t even music, it’s like reading that book
That I was supposed to read over summer break
And I didn’t even look
The dead coal mine canary
Flashdance chair lever pull to the prom blood drop. Carrie
Voluntary manslaughter
That’s how I beat Aaron Carter
Salvatore Ferragamo. Karen Carpenter
Francis Ford Coppola. Janis Joplin. Samuel Gompers
George Stephanopoulos. Gonzo
Saint Bernard. Cask of Amontillado
Free shavacado. Janeane Garofalo
Rock of Gibraltar eroded. Geronimo
Guantanamo Daisy Carnival
Paper blotter. Bottle full
Figwit lives. Higgs Boson particle
Oceanographer. Jacques Cousteau
Jacques Clouseau. Jean Jacques Rousseau. Sacre bleu
Saturday morning cartoon cereal bowl
Ulterior motive. Strike fear in your soul
Swore I was Zero from Holes
Halcyon days
Hyperion hero. Father of Helios
Fortississimo
George St. Geegland. Prometheus featured role
Joker card rattle between the spokes
Joseph Grimaldi and the Amazing Technicolor TV quote
Reach for the sky through reefer legally smoked
And treat real life like the joke that it is
Fame. I just wanna live. Same
Not enough disk space. Shame. Can’t be saved
Indentured slave workin’ minimum wage
Bars bent on the cage. Visceral rage
Swaths of indigenous slain
Indivisible
With liberty and justice for the ones who can pay
Had to add an amendment
For the people who had somethin’ to say
Funkhouser forever. Master
Get back whence you came
Bang!
Bang bang bang!
Bang bang bang...