I tell ya, I'm alright now
But last week I was in rough shape
But I don't get a break with nothin'!
I played hide and seek when I was three
Why, they wouldn't even look for me
I was an ugly kid, I never had fun
They took me to a dog show and I won!
When I was born I brought no joy
My old man said he wanted a boy
I was an ugly kid, always alone
Halloween, I had to trick or treat over the phone
Friends don't call, my phone don't ring
I don't get a break with anything!
Ah, death, where is thy sting?!
It's just Rappin' Rodney, ain't wrapped too tight
No, no, Rappin' Rodney, get out of sight
It's just Rappin' Rodney, make no mistake
Poor old Rappin' Rodney, can't get a break!
I'm getting old, it's hard to face
When during sex I lose my place
Steak and sex, my favorite pair
I have 'em both the same way, very rare
I know I'm old, I could go any minute!
I got a kidney-shaped pool with a stone in it
Doctor Vinnie Boombatz, that's another one
I said I wanna stop aging, he gave me a gun!
I told him I got water on the knee
He gave me a sponge and raised his fee!
Ah, it ain't easy bein' me
It's just Rappin' Rodney, ain't wrapped too tight
No, no, Rappin' Rodney, get out of sight
It's just Rappin' Rodney, make no mistake
Poor old Rappin' Rodney, can't get a break!
Now, gimme a break! Play something from the 40s!
Now, what kinda music is this? How about "Stardust"?
Man, what are you doin'?! That's not "Stardust"!
Listen to this, will ya? I mean, where are the flutes?
What a band... ey, don't quit your day jobs
Look at this, the drummer carries the melody!
Hey, tell the bass player I like his instrument
Hey boys, keep it going! Lay it on me, I'm in the groove!
Nothing goes right, I just can't fight it
Well, Eastern Airlines thanked me for flying United!
I got some money, what did I do?
I bought some quicksand, the deal fell through!
My car broke down, I called Triple A
They left the car and towed me away!
I can't take it no more, I'm getting too old
I called Suicide Prevention, they put me on hold!
Winter, summer, spring, and fall
I'm always up against the wall!
Ah, I don't get no respect at all
It's just Rappin' Rodney, ain't wrapped too tight
No, no, Rappin' Rodney, get out of sight
It's just Rappin' Rodney, make no mistake
Poor old Rappin' Rodney, can't get a break!
It's getting worse, it's caving in!
The heaviness, I can't take it no more
It's all over... hey, where are my kids?
Somebody help me! Hey, bartender!
Hey, who's that guy with my daughter?
Where's my wallet? How do I get outta here?
Stop that dancing...!