They said, "You battling T-Top...on SMACK...in a small room...
You know they ain't gon' treat you fair
I said, "It can't be that much of a small room...he in there"
I'm 'bout to breeze through, with ease, too
You 'bout to beat who? Where?
It's obvious you well-rounded, I can see you square
But they say, "Be prepared
K, you bout to meet the Bear."
T'll  get thrown like a drink in the Queen of England chair
Three from the chrome
Squeezin', leakin', while he wheeze for air
This chop' got a fan and a stand  that don't bleach his hair
Be aware
The goons play on the block where you stay
They'll both slide up, soon as you pop in 2K
Spray up your place
Top finna get shot in Fuquay
The snake on a plate: it's not dinner with Bobby Boucher
This Doomsday
You 'bout to get some vintage K
Think it's sweet, 'til Top torched: creme brulee
Fuck the ops
We don't got to take the pistol play
Stomach shots
Got the ribbon on Top, like Christmas Day
You soft body, all weak
John Gotti, on beat
And got the nerve to end your rounds with "Concrete."
My first impression: I don't know what the hell he meant
This stick'll leave a mark like wet cement
He bent
I ride on you
Hellraiser: Clive Barker
You fightin' Luke Skywalker wit' a flyswatter
I came home on papers, they had to file on you
Ankle monitor: turn your sweats to highwaters
And they was on the tuxedo concords
I had to see three P.O.'s : it wasn't Star Wars
I needed money, I split a zone to all fours
You needed money, you get the phone and call Norbes
We different
You ain't Mr. Big Time, this shitty bitch lyin
You signed on the dotted line, stayin' in line
I'm coast-to-coast, making playin' plays
Go and get mine
Catching bands  in every state, toting six .9's 
We different
The game'll turn you spiteful
You from a class of battlers that never had to earn the title
I split, 'cause of politics, and broke a worthless cycle
They had to learn to live without me
They had to learn to like you
We different
I make a rug when his ass get killed
You ain't a bear - you's a Teddy Graham in a glass of milk
I load up the assault rifle
Sit there and laugh
And watch it be a A.R. that split a bear in half
It's T-Top vers' Lil' K
Nigga, I'm proud of you
'Cause you was on King of the Dot
Making power moves
I mean, you never got the chain, so what?
We don't count it, dude
We know when the system in play, niggas is bound to lose
Correct me if i'm wrong
'Cause i don't never want to sound confused
But you battled Conceited, and got a couple hundred thousand views
You wasn't valuable, so Organik just started scoutin' dudes
And then you started drowing in the bottom of the talent pool
So check your attitude
You seen what I did to Avenue
I got them two K's plus a hit stick
I play Madden, too
Trap nigga - I could hit the stove, turn a half in two
We hit a lick together?
Bitch, I'll make you turn your half in, too
I grab the tool
Tell me, is you with the shit today?
You get whacked with a hundred , and need Stitches in your face
I'm under his tree, every single Christmas with the gauge
Let it ring your mouth, 'cause every kiss begin with K !
Bitch, bitch, bitch!
They said "Top, you been surviving off performance alone
Small-room, back to the bars - leave performance alone
He need street credit."
Cool - I'm performing alone 
But you gotta meet some requirements to call this your home
Now I ain't saying I'm no activist
But we ain't gonna sit up here and act as if
He ain't turn his back and quit on a brother's regular cracker shit
All you had to do was battle...nigga, that was it!
You got your cash and split
Gave Beasley and them yo' ass to kiss!
That's word to Wakanda he don't belong in this battle shit
'Cause every time he gotta prove he one of us, he just flap his lip!
I'm mad as shit!
Jab his lip
Tell him to knuckle up, or dump the pump
Niggas can get whatever the fuck they want
You better brace your legs, you ever think about running up
Cause the four is  my best friend like I'm Bubba Gump!
What you want?
I'll leave a nigga flesh on the steps
BOW! BOW! BOW!
Now his head getting stretched
I could've used one shot just to settle the mess
But I think three moves a head  like I'm better in chess
I give 'em the business
Shoot a nigga dead in his neck!
And whoever next to Ken  will inherit the rest!
I mean, look
You been played for this league, but got overlooked
They draft me
I show them how a franchise supposed to look
They know about my moms, my past: my life an open book
Robberies scheduled all year: nigga, I'm overbooked
They gassed you
I mean, you dope - you just overcooked
You even missed your shot on Cort'  when you had the open look
I wrote the book
I showed them how to saw off a gauge
Not a Glock
One shot? He getting tossed off the stage
If we box, it's gonna turn into a brawl from a fade
Cause when i pop
Ken'll  have to call his dogs out the cage
First I heard Pinkface is what they called you in Norfolk
Then asked my street niggas
They said they never saw you in Norfolk
I got mad like, "Nigga, y'all sure he's from Norfolk?"
Cause if i get an Ocean View
I leave his body on a shore up in Norfolk
They said you didn't do the time for no robbery: it was burglary
Tell the truth - if you getting tired of me, nigga, murder me
Nina young
Don't nothin' slide in her but a thirty piece
And MAC old
Shit, it's his "90th anniversary"
Hold up, you was locked up for breakin and entering, bruh?
Aight i know y'all jokin'
He used to wait 'til bitches go to work
And see if they left their doorknobs on
The 45 smoke him
BOW! You gotta live with that
I put a big K in your face: let's have a mirror-match!
Pistol-whip his bitch and his baby
Now don't cheer for that
Just know I left his little white circle seeing stars like a Steelers hat
Now how real is that!?
You crackers can't come for my spot
The way I tend to bars, I could've left Rum on the rocks
Thought he was nervous when he got dumped off the docks
'Cause the rope was above his waist and left his stomach in knots
Concrete!
I roll a motherfuckin' hogleg
This pistol popping, catch him shopping, paint the mall red
When your big homie gotta keep your dogs fed
Don't get your big brody hit with a baldhead
I got the .50 drawn
I came to get it on
You frontin like you gorilla strong: you Diddy Kong
They running around actin like i did the city wrong
I heard when i was out of town puttin the city on
And what was they doin but ridin dick
Make me want to say "fuck rap!" and buy a brick
Shake the town, break it down, by the zip
I'mma play with 29, I'm stashin' a Michael Vick
Learn the lingo
Chalice is full of vino
Plugs named Chico
Houses in Santa Domingo
Push a El Camino
Y'all with a pink flamingo
Taught me to play my cards
Let's get these chips - bingo!
Three dice, C-Lo
Right in front of the b low
Turn to the streets, 'cause they ain't find us a hero
Fuck it, thats how it be doe
Pluck it in front of zeroes
They can say whatever, they'll never say it to me tho'
I'm with the hard hitters
Cuban cigars clippers
Passing plates 'round the table with the mob members
You gon' fuck around and get your whole squad injured
For pullin up sideways like the bartenders
When you have no help, you gotta do things
Like when I had no belt, i got a shoe string
Long as battle rap pay me, this a new scheme
Just get the cheese, then it's gravy: that's a poutine
I still take the whole check from a few fiends
From where they blowin' hoop dreams over mood swings
And the man dont matter if the coupe clean
You fuckin' bitches with fake butts and boob rings
Let's get the cooking
I sling it in the oil
Cut the flame on high and bring it to a boil
All over the seven, i really know the soil
Played the game right, and to the victor go to spoils
I blow the best of buds
Money, sex and drugs
We dont even lift a fork, til we bless the grub
Extendo grippin', I fill a chest with blood
The thirty hangin' out, it's not a grown and sexy club
Bet that
You ain't even catch that
This ain't xanny and lean, designer dress rack
You still supplying checkers for a chess match
While we applyin' pressure til the neck snap
Step back or get stretched out, you can't win
Hard life, been stressed out since age ten
Now they know what the set 'bout: we made men
You gonna poke your chest out, and get it caved in!
I said, I always keep it real with my fans
I never switch my role
Before I come and spit some bullshit
I'd rather dig my hole
I dont write bars
Every battle i give my soul
The game tailor-made
And i was suited with them zips and zones
My uncle was a blazer
He light that pipe soon as he get it home
You was cuffed
Linked to a nigga until your sentence known
I never slack
Turkey bag full of weed
I had to twist the bowls
But no matter how i address it
Y'all still gon' say Kenneth cold !
This gettin old
Y'all dont remember the shit i did to sno
I been whoopon crackers in the ring
Im riddick bowe
Should i used the snub or the long john
Like its getting cold
Just know it ain't no handshake after i pick a nose
Really doe?
Y'all went to pay kenneth for me
Knowin shit would get dreadful
Should've saved Kenneth for Reed
Paying nuggets?
Y'all really sold Kenneth the dream
Cause now he stuck behind bars like Kenneth Supreme
Your whole squad got Monopoly money
I made a chess board
Scrabble up what you wanna buy, but just expect more
Sorry its trouble
I got the tech drawn
And dot filling holes across his body
Like why would you play with the connect 4
Yeah, you went to jail, oh well
I'm not impressed, fraud
They prolly had you dryin' wet drawers after mess hall
I let one ring from the arm: Brett Favre!
Make it rain on the white boy: we smellin' wet dog!
And speaking of dog, if he at the crib, we Homeward Bound
I'm ridin' with go-getters
Tell 'em take this smoke, or snoop on your own nigga
At last, he folded - I guess the nigga know better
Had the white boy shootin' his dog: Old Yeller!
And if i can make you kill your nigga, that mean you pussy, fam
If you wasn't comfortable up in Norfolk, you should've took a stand
Instead, a nigga from another city came and took your hand
Protected you so much, your daughter gon' look like Brooklyn Hanz!
And your grandmother a Neanderthal cave bitch
She see you rappin' with colored folks and did that rollin' in the grave trick
You ain't shit
And we ain't never seen you keep the beam
If you a pimp with a MAC, why we ain't never seen Pinkie ring?
And in your last battle, you said you spit a loogie as long as the Green Mile
Lets take a walk, G
You'll get shot in between bars, if you taunt me
The metal burnin' his top like "Old Sparky"
And everything I speak fly like John Coffee!
I been gritty!
Run in your trap, the Grinch wit' me
I was stealing the base with two .4's : I'm Ken Griffey!
Where I'm from, in Carolina, my nigga, you couldn't come there
Rolla whooped your man's ass in the streets and had you dumb scared
John punked you at the last event with no gun there
And Math made you apologize in Chicago
And, nigga, he ain't even from there!
Yeah, we heard about your times in the shop
When you got yo' ass checked
We know, minus the bullshit, that situation can add stress
But you never solved the problem
Thought about him, had yo' ass plexed
You the only white nigga i know that couldn't pass a Math test
Hold on, I got another for ya
'Cause Math was about to do a number on ya
We all started to call your bluff but nobody had a number for ya
Nigga, we was gunning for you 'cause they say Kenny amazin
Well, if he try angles , I kill him and keep a secret like Kenny a Mason
If he ever spray the nigga face, then Kenny was macin'!
Time. Time. Yeah, yeah, that's time, sir. It's over for you
Aight, let's get serious, y'know?
My fingers would smell like kitty litter
If I gave you a titty twister
You'll take a six pound chicken dinner...and make it a fidget spinner
One bite
Eat the whole bird...with the gizzards
Leave the scene, hit the Dairy Queen...get a Blizzard
Ice pops
When you walk, your thighs hop
They said, "You can't joke around on SMACK"
Why not!?
I'm gonna do me 'til i wanna quit
Suck a dick!
Y'all don't think he jokin' when he say he sold a hundred bricks?
Right...right...
But you was born in the trap
You hustle mad snow
Your uncle had crack, your brother had blow
You lyin in your raps
That dusty ass flow
All this cocaine music
Well, where the money bag, yo?
You broke!
You broke as a mothafucka!
Tried to book me and got a fit-buy prices
I should've scraped you off the sidewalk like shrimp fried rices
With a rusty razor blade
Givin windpipe slices
I couldn't call T-Top vet if i had a midlife crisis
Righteous
Im on they block
Posted, with the gauge cocked
Who want the smoke
I got the juice
This a vape shop
They crept up too deep
He caught a face shot
Then his right hand got popped
It won't state prop
You fake Top
And you final-lappin' in a nerd race
Dissin' a dead girl for reaction
Oh, that's wordplay?
"But he apologized like a grown man. I know you heard, K!"
Naw, 'cause a man would've never said it in the first place!
And that's what you don't get
You on some battle rap shit
Id rather tell you suck a sack of fat dicks
And call you hacky sack tits
'Cause you'll do anything to have an angle in your verses, and it's phony
How you got personals and you don't personally know me?
It don't count unless it's facts, and you can give me your word
But you'll write a whole round about some shit that you heard
That's why I'm doing King bad: William the Third
T-Top Bizzy the Bear really a bird!
You a hoe
They made you apologize when way worse happened
That's 'cause you suck as life, and way worse rappin'
You was begging for attention: I'mma dirt-nap him
You'll be worser than these bitches with the thirst trappin'
We work-baggin', thousand-dollar shirt-taggin'
20 guns in the trunk, that got the vert draggin
Still smell like a skunk soon as I murk past him
She hit the rock on once
And caught an herbgasm
'Cause all i smoke is 'thrax on 'thrax
I pull up and hop out in somethin' black on black
Get his new mixtape - it dropped yesterday
The shit is wack on wack
It's titled Bear Necessities, in honor of his SMACK contract
Let's go
URL, this my closing verse
Like, fuck a casket
Throw this bastard in the back and just close the hearse
Now i ain't come here to make the crowd go berserk
I came here just to show y'all work
Now let me put it in
They said, "K ran to the white boys."
I said, "Good riddance."
They said, "He probably gonna go for the chain."
I said, "He could get it."
They said, "A black man got it right now."
I said, "You bullshittin'..."
Well, I thought they was bluffin', until i seen 'em sellin' Wolf tickets
See, we hood niggas
Let me get this out the way, K
You crackers can't come over here just for a payday
Oh, you don't like it when I call you cracker?
Man, get that shit up out my face, K
If you don't wanna rap about The Race, then how you ready for Tay, K?
We shaved weight
And I heard this nigga hammer spit, cannon rip
He only rap about how he be blammin shit
I pulled up to YouTube Red
Hell, I was amped as shit
The first thing I found was a mothafuckin' camping trip!
I hit "Cancel" quick!
I said, "This can't be it!
First, it was JC on his dancin' tip
Then y'all give me a nigga that be swimming wit' the Klan and shit!?"
Oh, y'all planned this shit...
'Cause, see, we could've let Chess have her
There's plenty fish in the sea, Smack
We should've let Red snap her 
But he didn't wanna come here and lose to a nigga with less stature
He figured Bizzy will give him his respect faster
What I'm tryna say is Bigg knows  I'm the X-Factor!
I'll neck-snap ya!
I'm tired of sayin' that I'm a lead-clapper!
I'm Donald Trump sittin' in office: a head-cracker!
I could put the thing right here and dump the ratchet!
It only ring in your right ear, you fuckin' faggot!
Yeah, we had a drought in my hood
Did something happen?
I push 'twork in the middle of June
That's summer madness
What happenin'!?
And i just got a brand new Ruger, the shit's crazy
Her nose wide, the bitch pregnant with six babies
Forget the jokes
I think it's time that I let him know
This for every black joke yo' family ever told
This for every time Grandpops dropped the N-bomb, and y'all let it roll!
This for every time Macklemore won an award instead of 'Hov!
Bitch, we set in stone
Your whole species a genetic clone
That's why every new style you get is already old
King of the Dot, it's like y'all got a leak in your boat
'Cause when y'all money was right, he ain't have no reason to go
If y'all an army, why you wait 'til they needed you most
To throw down your Confederate flag and start leavin' your post?
Cause thats the same shit the nigga did wit' Beas' and the bros
Smack saved your white dirty ass 'cause he believed in you most
Last time he was Action Bronson when he tweetin' his quotes
Cause y'all give him a little Power - now he thinkin' he Ghost!
Well, it's time I make him suffer for you
And I see you even brung reporters
Well, we don't tolerate Trump supporters, and Organik can't do nothin' for ya
I run up on ya
The gat spittin', his hat liftin'
That did him
2 to his head
That shit had him backflipping
I went to school like, "I'm not leavin' until the bag finished!"
I had 8 plays lined up before the class ended
We wanna know your story, Big Kenny
Was it rags? Riches?
Half-privileged, but not good enough to run your dad business
Started rebellin' 'round 12, took some ass-whippings
Went on crack binges, and found you a love for black women!?