In 2013, American rapper Kanye West caused more altercation and storm than most world leaders combined. The reason? His sixth album Yeezus. From its brazenly blasphemous title to the harsh auditory contents that laid within, Yeezus polarised fans and critics alike, with it being labelled ‘repugnant’, ‘beautiful’ and everything in between. West’s music was previously associated with joyful soul-samples, taking riffs from Curtis Mayfield, Gil-Scott Heron and the Jackson 5, whilst his lyrical content had touched on everything from his first days of school to the tragic demise of his mother. Yeezus refuted both of these preconceptions, offering both harsh instrumentals and dark lyrics that touched on very different subject matter.
In the album, West discusses institutionalised racism in America, getting blackout drunk in friend’s apartments and his most lewd sexual tales yet. These lyrics are what I will be investigating, or more specifically, the labels he uses for men, women and himself. I wanted to see how far gender influenced the labels implemented throughout the ten brief songs, and how he sees himself in the midst of it all.
Theorists I plan to use in the investigation include Sanjiv Dugal, Matthew Eriksen, Kathleen Malon and Matthew H. Roy, whose piece Campus Bitch &; White Trash: Pardoning the Injury of Language Acts in Participatory Contexts I hope I find will aid me in coming to terms with how context and backgrounds of an individual can influence their meaning, use and significance of an appellation. Other theorists I plan to cite include Robin Lakoff, whose article Language and Women’s Place which supplied me with background relating to the marginality and powerlessness of women reflected in both the ways women are expected to speak, and the ways in which women are spoken of  last year when I studied language, gender and power. Theorists that explore the language of hip-hop and it’s context include Jim Fitzpatrick, Tricia Rose and T. M. Adams.
Throughout the investigation, I will compile tables of West’s tags in a way that is clear and comment on the labels that I have found significant and worthy of comment. I will not include repetitions in song choruses or featured verses / choruses from other artists in the album in my investigation.
West’s terms for men are unvaried. Out of the total of 32, 29 of the terms for men are the expletive ‘nigga’. The appellation, deriving from the of the Latin adjective ‘niger’ , has been appropriated by black people as a term of address and sometimes endearment. A usage of the word occurs in the song ‘New Slaves’ .
West’s use of the term ‘man’ / ‘men’ is interesting throughout the album. We see it used in the LP’s third track ‘Black Skinhead’, ‘They see a black man with a white woman / At the top floor they gone come to kill King Kong’. Referencing King Kong, a film released in 1933 is also interesting in the context of the line. The time of the film’s release was a time rife with racial prejudice and attack. There was a major change in policy with the Roosevelt administrations and he was sympathetic to the problems facing black Americans, yet Roosevelt did not attempt to challenge segregation. The language in the song’s two lines heavily mirror the racial prejudice at the time. West, as the narrator describes the interracial couple as a ‘black man with a white woman’, however, the third person plural ‘they’ is used and the verb ‘see’ is incorporated to contrast what West observes to what ‘they’ see. West sees a white man with a black woman, ‘they’ see King Kong, a giant movie monster, resembling a colossal gorilla who that needs to be ‘kill’. This abides with David N. Rosen’s theory that King Kong could be argued as representing racial struggles in America, he argues in his online essay King Kong: Race, Sex, and Rebellion that ‘It doesn't require too great an exercise of the imagination to perceive the element of race in King Kong. Racist conceptions of blacks often depict them as subhuman, ape or monkey-like... Kong is forcibly taken from his jungle home... until finally he is felled by the forces of law and order. Linguist David Crystal found that images can be appropriated and re-fashioned to form cultural hints and pointers. In West’s case, most of his cultural sources concern himself , he is the receptacle for the deft and playful use of cultural image - perhaps hinting at a manifested masculine ego. Let’s not forget that 1975 musical horror comedy The Rocky Horror Picture Show  also borrows the same climactic imagery from King Kong, but in a more camp and homosexual aesthetic with the titular star carrying Frank up the RKO tower at the end and Frank's query ‘Whatever happened to Fay Wray?’,  idealising her satin-draped vulnerability'.
The line could even be argued as referencing West himself. At a recent performance in New Jersey, West told the crowd that the media makes him look like a ‘maniac or animal’, and that ‘they’re afraid of interracial relationships’ like his. The repetition of the ‘they’ here strengthens Kanye’s ‘us against the world’ mentality. ‘They’ goes on to be used 13 other times amongst the three songs. ‘they say I'm possessed’, ‘they wasn't satisfied unless I picked the cotton myself’, ‘they throwin' hate at me’. This abides with Oxman TE, Rosenberg SD and Tucker GJ’s ‘The Language of Paranoia’ which determines that delusions are a subtype of schizophrenia or as a trait that exists on a spectrum from normality to pathology.
The word ‘nigga’ gets fitted with a contentious pre-modifier in the line ‘When a real nigga hold you down, you supposed to drown’ from ‘Bound 2’. The effect of this is polarising, as it divides people given the label ‘nigga’ into ‘real’ and, by default ‘unreal’. This does not align with the concept of West’s motivation as unifying and forwarding black culture.  A lexical tag is also employed to a racial term in track ‘Black Skinhead’, . The demand for people to stop that ‘coon shit’ is also disuniting as ‘coon’ translates as a racial slur for a black person. Therefore, West’s demand for people to ‘stop acting black’ as it is comical, childlike and immature   is offensive and goes against his wish for an America that doesn’t ‘kill King Kong ’ if they are in a relationship with a ‘white woman’. Ted Scheinman explains that West is ‘lazy’ in his lyrics and that his obtuse political stance is ‘seeking social-commentary cred that he hasn’t earned’ in his review of Yeezus for Slant Magazine.
This authority is also framed with an imperial/kingly semantic on track ‘Black Skinhead’, the song bears a semantic field of masculine power, with ancient imagery and even imperial connotations. ‘Enter the kingdom’ insists West, whilst dropping lines like ‘I keep it 300, like the Romans’ and ‘I’m aware I’m a king’ that strengthen the perception of West as an enforcer of masculine values. In the eyes of Robin Lakoff, his use of taboo language and expletives effectuate this, as she sees it as a staple feature of masculine language in her article ‘Woman’s Language’. Contextually though, rap and hip-hop music is a genre rife with profanity, with plenty of artists in the genre that don’t forward virility and manliness such as Kendrick Lamar and Logic, but will use the same terms West does in their music, the hip-hop archetypes are more complicated than Lakoff's theories allow, proving them to be out of date.
West uses a total of 6 terms for women. The term most frequently used is ‘bitch / bitches’ and this is applied 22 times out of the total 47 throughout the album. An example of this is in the heart-felt slow jam closer ‘Bound 2’ in the line ‘one good girl is worth a thousand bitches’. The usage of the word here is overtly negative. Merriam-Webster defines ‘bitch’ in the following ways : ‘a lewd or immoral woman,’ ‘a malicious, spiteful, or overbearing woman,’ and / or ‘something that is extremely difficult, objectionable, or unpleasant.’ and here it appears, is no exception. He however incorporates it in a way that I do not condone as degrading women in general, but perhaps those of a 'lewd or immoral' nature. The line implies that West has the option, he could have the ‘good girl’  or he could have the thousand bitches, who he assumes would come to him if he gave them the chance.
West choosing to refer to his wife, Kim Kardashian, as a ‘good girl’ in not only degrades all other women  but the contrast in pronouns, with one harsh phonetic intensifier being used for one  and the other using the deadly simple but positive evaluative ‘good’ makes his girl appear much more classy, with good morals and certainly not a bitch . ‘Girl’ is also intriguing, maybe not in West’s vocabulary but inherently so. A girl  has connotations of overt innocence and naivety, which begs the question, is ‘girl’ a compliment after all?
West takes this further though in live performances of his song ‘Cold’, which was released in 2012, he chooses to change his line ‘Plus, yo my bitch make your bitch look like Precious’ to ‘Plus, yo my girl make your bitch look like Precious’. Who he’s addressing here is evident of a sort of Kim-based misogyny. The choice to address a man here instead of ‘Plus yo my girl make you look like Precious’ insinuates that women are just decorative ornaments, not to be talked to but about, through their boyfriends or partners. This aligns well with Simone de Beauvoir’s ‘Other women’ identity theory that ‘otherness is a fundamental category of human thought. Women are defined and differentiated with reference to man and not he with reference to her; she is incidental, the inessential as opposed to the essential. He is the Subject, he is the Absolute; she is the ‘Other.’’
There are also two other odd lines in ‘Bound 2’. These lines  do away with Kanye’s exaltation of his partner and labels her as a ‘bitch’ just like the rest of ‘em’. The fact that this is last song on the album, and, by definition, is the most recent song West has released leaves me puzzled. Is Kim a bitch or is she a good girl? Maybe West wishes to spark controversy or simply confuse his fans. 'Yeezus is not one that you’ll want your kids listening to,' writes Randall Roberts of the L.A. Times. 'Ethnic stereotypes and shocking sentiments dot the record. ‘This is not a man concerned with offending women or racial activists,' he adds. 'It’s an otherwise thoughtful man in pure ID mode, thinking with his groin and worrying little about the ladies’ vote.
West’s use of the expletives align with a case study by Jim Fitzpatrick examined the language in a rap battle in a 2001 Blaze Battle competition. He found that rappers use a ‘gendered language’ and if they seek respect they ‘must consistently engage in behaviours that align with community norms and therefore merit respect’. It could be the want to ‘fit in’ that West carries which causes him to use the taboo ‘bitch’ 22 times, as Fitzpatrick goes on to say that ‘the rhetoric of gender is based on repetition’ and as Deborah Cameron comments ‘masculine’ and ‘feminine’ are not what we are...but effects that we produce.’ She goes to remark that ‘gender is the repeated stylization of the body, a set of repeated acts within a rigid regulatory frame’. West, and many others in the hip-hop community, therefore, repeatedly assert their gender as heterosexual masculine behaviour, either through lexical terms  or through narratives describing their sexual exploits with women. In her book Black Noise, Tricia Rose confirms Cameron and Fitzpatrick’s concepts, identifying the implication of heterosexual masculine power as a social marker. This kind of behaviour then, stems from the wish of West to construct status for himself.
West’s aggressive assertion ‘When a real nigga hold you down you supposed to drown’ off of ‘Bound 2’ further complies with Rose’s analysis, as she writes that rappers ‘craft elaborate and creative stories about the abuse and domination of young  women’, she notes that ‘tales of sexual domination falsely relieve  lack of self worth and limited access to economic and social markers for heterosexual masculine power’.
‘Woman’ however, a word labelled to a female after she has passed through childhood and adolescence, generally around the age 18, is incorporated in the track ‘Black Skinhead’. The context of its usage is interesting, ‘They see a black man with a white woman / At the top floor they gone come to kill King Kong’, this is the only usage of ‘woman’ in the album. The aforementioned term ‘girl’ is sometimes used casually to allude to a youthful or unmarried woman, however during the early 1970s feminists debated its usage because the use of the word to label a fully grown woman may cause offence. Conversely, in certain cultures which connect the honour of a family with female virginity, ‘girl’ is still used to allude to a never-married woman. In this sense it is used in a fashion roughly analogous to the obsolete English ‘maid’ or ‘maiden’. Referring to an unmarried female human as a ‘woman’ may, in such a culture, imply that she is sexually experienced, which would be an insult to her family.
West’s terms all in all comply with T. M Adams’ study which finds that gender stereotyping in hip-hop comes under three categories: ‘Mammy’, ‘Sapphire’ and ‘Jezebel’ in order to ‘predispose the general American culture to the acceptance of the racial and sexual oppression of African American women.’ The ‘Jezebel’ resembles a loose, sexually aggressive woman. The Jezebel (previously implied in the ‘thousand bitches’ line off ‘Bound 2’, wants and accepts sexual activity in any form from men, and she often uses sex as a means to get what she wants from men. ‘This image provides a rationale for the history of sexual assaults on African American women.’ Lerner states.
West’s terms for himself are perhaps the most interesting of all the labels throughout Yeezus. Looking at the title of the record, it would be appropriate to start with his most salient self-label, ‘God’. He uses it in the bizarrely modest title ‘I Am a God’ which contains the declarative 9 times.  The reference is interesting as it is clearly indicative of power and self-love, it also puts West above anyone else is merely described as human . ’ Writer  D. Stephen Long in his book Speaking of God: Theology, Language and Truth describes referring to oneself as God as being ‘at the end of modernity and post-secularity’, West's prophetic stance confirms this principle, he is a celebrity star, able to identify himself via positiva as a God due to his influential position".
In the song he declares that he is ‘the only rapper compared to Michael’, an allusion to archangel Michael, the leader of God’s armies.  In a way, this messianic and God-like conviction of the song and this excerpt recall John Milton’s blank-verse-epic-poem Paradise Lost which depicts a war in heaven in the fifth installment. In this reference, he compares his battling with competitors in the music industry to angels battling with satanic forces  ‘Here’s a few hatin’-ass niggas to fight you / Here’s a few snake-ass niggas to bite you’. In doing so, West carries the confidence to expand and explore positive Christian semantics.
The declarative composure of the sentence also presents Kanye’s view as fact, making it easier for the audience to respect him. If West had chosen to implement ‘I think I’m a God’, the declaration would not be as concrete, making it harder for audiences to sympathise or respect West as the ‘God’ that he is. To be respected is Kanye’s intention, as seen in the line ‘y'all better quit playin' with God’. In Timothy Shopen’s Language Typology and Syntactic Description, Shopen describes the effect of declaratives, saying that use is ‘ main way that language  convey assertions, expressions of belief’. He also argues that their use in asserting power is ‘nothing special’, claiming that their use is ‘basic and widespread’.
What is important to consider is the sincerity that West carries with this line, and other lines in the song. ‘Hurry up with my damn croissants’ West yells in the song’s chorus, seemingly absurd, it complies with the belief that maybe West is just having a bit of fun. Of the aforementioned line, Gavin Haynes writes in his review of the album for NME ‘He’s joking. He’s not joking. No-one really knows.’ Helen Brown also debates West’s gravitas, commenting that ‘it’s hard to know how seriously to be shocked’ by West’s language. The perception of West as possibly being ironic in his silliness works in tandem with Zoja Pavlovskis-Petit’s definition of irony from her piece ‘Irony and Satire’ which dictates that ‘there is no end in which irony can select, seize upon, and manipulate its material by creating ambiguities and contradictions’. She concludes that irony ‘belongs to the individual, not the generic, both on the level of the author and that of the audience’. If we accept Petit's concept of 'individual' irony, a sense of lyrical humour that is, to an extent, exclusive to fans and hinges on cultish normality with West's musical persona, then perhaps this boastful, messianic delusion must be reviewed in the light of media image. West's ironic assumption into hip hop's Parnassus, we can only assume, must be a central part of his brand.
Language in hip-hop stems from a very specific yet complex culture, source material include the spirituals of slaves arriving in the new world, Jamaican dub music, the sorrow of jazz and blues singers, ordered cockney slang and radio DJs hyping their audience in rhyme. Further investigation into West’s lyrics would need to contextualise tactics that can effectively navigate through the music industry and the perspective of a female hip-hop artist on the misogyny and production methods employed in Yeezus.
Despite this however, we can clearly observe West is a skilful, ambiguous and even purposefully confusing lyricist, particularly whilst discussing his gendered terms of address. He will play into the conformities of misogyny in hip-hop  but also will break the mould, referring to females as ‘women’, albeit when he is talking about women of white ethnicity.
Along with frank racial address and swooping gender-political terms, there is also the issue of egotistical humour and irony that West immerses himself in. As Alexis Petridis describes the lyrics in the conclusion of his review of Yeezus for the Guardian as ‘variously shocking, funny, thought-provoking, nonsensical, contradictory and occasionally reprehensible’, along with rightfully commenting that ‘the only consistent thing about them is how inconsistent they are’. Perhaps further investigation into registers of rap satire is needed to measure the gravity of one man’s designed pomposity.
By Reuben Tasker