Where will we go?
Love of mine
Where will we go?
Love of mine
Live from the Thorns that we Rose from
Naked as we came, with no clothes on
You know how it goes, they never know what goes on
And end up dancing fast to a slow song, catching up
It's not matching up, fire water is toxic
Passion hot and heavy, it's like water for chocolate
We're in the mood for mimosas and olives on omeletes
Sell love like drugs, I want all of the profit
Prophet of rage on the page
I make the wage on the stage
I sing songs of solidarity backstage with the sage
Sun salutation samba, Palo santo mambo
But our mood is Mahmoud on the Oud
Cuban link Jesus sitting on grey goose
Baby, you're my muse, I make tunes while you bathe nude
And you know that's my style
If I'm Caetano, mami, you could be my Gal 
You could be my gal, be my gal, be my gal, be my gal
You could be my gal, be my gal, be my gal, be my gal 
You could be my gal, be my gal, be my gal, be my gal 
You could be my gal, be my gal, be my gal, be my gal
In Puerto Rico like Fania
Escutando Maria Bethânia
No álibis in our business we be like nunya
Pacing with Tanya, racing like Anya 
Vai no que vai é um ciclone
Camiseta é ciclone
Sentimental é Simone
Aí sim, aipim com a Brahma
Man know a lot of thing but don’t know about drama
Two weeks in the cama
John Lennon and Yoko
More roses for the bathtub
More rum for the coco
El rompe totó, loco but never local
Passport be colorful and global
Joseph is a mogul
Superbad like Fogel
Parrots out in paradise no wonder that’s my logo
And you know that’s my style
If I’m Gilberto Gil, you could be my Gal 
You could be my gal, be my gal, be my gal, be my gal
You could be my gal, be my gal, be my gal, be my gal 
You could be my gal, be my gal, be my gal, be my gal 
You could be my gal, be my gal, be my gal, be my gal
Esperta! Pô, para com esses costumes
Fala! É ciúmes, vai lá!
Play again, 100% Clara Nunes!
Like Niko, I Understand!
Fico mais um pouco e vivo os segundos
Sempre tão compreensivo 
E você diz que eu fui fundo!
Fui compondo, sortudo!
Não me fiz pra uma miss, paz é giz, lousa é o mundo!
Thanks Chris, Joey, fiz!
Suei, não miei o estudo de Elis, Tânia e tudo que já ouvi! 
E não é por ter mais bate-papo, mais site, fato!
Traz Bud-light e eu taco fora
E só Red Stripe agora!
Um mísero amante, só divido outro instante
Pode escolher, prefere o SPVIC ou o restante?
You could be my gal, be my gal, be my gal, be my gal 
You could be my gal, be my gal, be my gal, be my gal 
You could be my gal, be my gal, be my gal, be my gal 
You could be my gal, be my gal, be my gal, be my gal 