Here comes the Big Mac Nothin' kinda a Mac that you get it from the Mickey
D's Put it that kinda Mac and the truck that, ladies
Sex appeal will be blind for the real deal Squall, get real, chill the double fresh meal
My holiday, they're only tryin' to buy me a couple of cookies
Like to surround me, mommy-mommy, yammy's wow! They couldn't be comin'
I got the bullet in, bullet from enthrone Pocket gets dressed stuck like C-Lo
Today's the day the way everyone's lovin' me Here's I'm on stage, twenty-thousand they're lovers to me
Here's another cutie will go, "Heavy D., ah!"  Around the block It's the Heavy D
Ticket line I'll get yours, you'll get mine No need to make it aloud cuz everything's really fine
Sweet mama, you're crushed from the slow thought Here's the trade box from a child to everybody
Make your body throw Bounce to jump and make sure you're hot Is everything fabulous before the pleasure?
And go thrill Where you're swingin', swingin' with da Hevster Hmmm... mookie-
Mookie Bubba, there's another hitman beats Sound loud and poppin' enough to crush
Party with me, baby, lover lady How ya doin', sugar? Oh, you need me for is cash?
 Now let me keep it steady like a regular hitter said
The overweight lover is back and I'm sweatin' I know what it feels but I hope it's still good
Now let me tell my pocket makes sure the jimmy hat would Everything's okey-dokey
Honkey-donkey, just great Ma, pass me a plate, I like fresh for my steak Make a little room, here comes a room
Marriage is our tune Sweet like a bloom So pass around forty, get naughty if you wanna, shorty
I know you want me, call me, just call me Tender Roni Cuz life is a fabulous
Open our pleasure and now go swell Where you're swingin', swingin' with da
Hevster Break it down One, two, three, bring your time Mama, I'ma take ya two, take ya three, take ya four
Listen to the lure, they'll cry once more I don't need a buzz tp get bubbled that party
I drink a poppin', pass me the Bacardi Party with me, cutie with your booty that shakes
Your body drivin' me milky like milk in my cornflakes I really like to know your head's waitin' it on me
Here's my third pager's number, beat me free We can walk away, lovers' scene, it's jokes
Later on, after that, boots get smokel They're capable, lovable, hand-culpable, transferable, bring you incredible
We bubble, we bubble, we stumble Knee deep when I have to double it
You'll trouble me when I'ma do a stunt to flip They have a double of me Cuz Heavy D
Lovers are in me My buddy's lovin' me Said, let's settle for a second
And then they're doggin' me, ee-nie, mee-nie, mi-nie, moe Pop on the stairs, listen to the overweight lover for you
District, tricky like a Combat A head-full whip from my rippin' on a slick tip
I never get high cuz I don't go being low Think 'bout it Unless you have to go
Where you're swingin', swingin' with da Hevster This goes out to my tycoons up industry
My man, Big Daddy Kane, Eric B. & Rakim My man, Koo G. Rap, Public Enemy, you know
I'm sayin'? My man, Marley Marl, the Cold Chilin', DJ Eddie F, my pal, Gee-Whiz
And I can't forget y man, Chill Rob, you know I'm sayin'? I can't forget along with cool Maxwell, Jamal
We're talkin' 'bout the brand-new Biz C.L Smooth and this is truly dedicated to my, my right hand boy
Trouble T-Boy, I can still see ya dance you can, we love ya, peace!  Peace!  Comeon...