Man, fuck these niggas!
I'ma spare everything but these niggas
I flip the gun and gun-butt these niggas
Take the knife off the AK and cut these niggas 
Yeah, and fuck these bitches
I swear I care about everything but these bitches
I don’t care, I "so what" these bitches
And I put Young Mula, baby, way above these bitches
Ha! If it ain’t broke, don’t break it
And-And-And if he ain’t shook, I’m gon' shake him
Hope I don’t look weak, 'cause when a wolf cry wolf
You still see that wolf teeth, mothafucka
Ha! Fu-Fu-Futuristic handgun
If you act foul, you get two shots and one, haha
I'm at your face like Lancôme, haha
You niggas softer than Roseanne's son, hey
You cannot reach me on my Samsung
I'm busy fuckin' the world and givin' the universe my damn tongue
Ha, crazy motherfucker, I am one, ha
But the crazy thing is, I began one
Hehe! All-white bricks
I’m straight like it’s jumping back to 36, nigga!
Big house, long hallways
Got 10 bathrooms, I could shit all day, nigga
And we don’t want no problems
Okay, you’re a goon, what's a goon to a goblin?
Yeah, and Kane on the beat
I fuck around and leave a nigga's brains on the street, oooh
Now, pop that pussy
I bring her to my bedroom and pop that pussy
Uh-huh, and we be steady mobbin'
Whoa, Kemosabe, big ballin' is my hobby
What the fuck is up?  It’s Gucci Mane the G 
Ask Tity Boi, no pity, boy; this scar city, the city boy 
So Icy; so, no Nike, boy
Just Gucci, Louis, Prada, 'scuse me 
"Gucci Mane keep shittin' on me, why that boy keep buying jewelry?" 
East Atlanta cockin' hammers, bandannas on car antennas 
No, we do not talk to strangers
Just cut off these niggas' fingers 
Gucci’s armed and dangerous, cocaine, codeine and angel dust
This AK-47 will hit ya everywhere from the ankle up 
Gun same size as Nia Long, clip long as a Pringles can 
4-5 Desert Eagle on me, you’ll think I'm a Eagles fan 
Toni Braxton sniper rifle, make you never breathe again 
Fuck that nigga, kill that nigga, bring him back, kill him again Gucci!
Yeah, the-the-the money is the motive
Fuck with the money, it get ugly as Coyote
"Okay, I’m reloaded," better pull it if you tote it
I buy a pound, break it down, and put it in a stogie
Swagger so bright, I don’t even need light
I’m with a model broad, she don’t even eat rice, ha
But, would you believe it? She eat dykes
And she asked me for a picture, so I gave her three strikes, yeah
I-I’m the man around this motherfucker
I’m so hot, you probably catch a tan around this motherfucker
This rap game, I got my hand around this motherfucker
Yeah, I said "game," but I ain’t playing around this motherfucker!
Yeah! I’m the best to ever do it, bitch, haha
And you’re the best at never doing shit
If you the shit, then I'm sewerage
Tr-try me and I’ll have your people reading eulogies, haha
I swear, you can’t fuck with me
But I can fuck your girl, and make her nut for me, then slut for me
Then kill for me, then steal for me, and of course, it’ll be your cash
Then I'll murder that bitch and send her body back to your ass
And-And we don’t want no problems
Oka-Okay, you’re a goon, what's a goon to a goblin?
Yeah, and Kane on the beat
I-I fuck around and leave a nigga's brains on the street, oooh
Now, pop that pussy
I-I bring her to my bedroom and pop that pussy
Uh-huh, and we be steady mobbin'
Whoa, Kemosabe, big ballin' is my hobby
Ugh! M-Man, suck my clip
Swallow my bullets, and don’t you spit, ughh!
I am the hip-hop socialist
Life is a gamble and I’m all about my poker chips
Do you want a dose of this? I will make the most of this
"F" is for ferocious, murder your associates
The top is so appropriate, this is just where I belong
Keep a hard dick for your girlfriend to wobble on, Weez'!
And-And we don’t want no problems
Oka-Okay, you’re a goon, what's a goon to a goblin?
Yeah, and Kane on the beat
I-I fuck around and leave a nigga's brains on the street, oohh
Now, pop that pussy
I bring her to my bedroom and pop that pussy
Uh-huh, and we be steady mobbin'
Whoa, Kemosabe, big ballin' is my hobby
Kane is in the building, nigga
And-And we don’t want no problems
Oka-Okay, you’re a goon, what's a goon to a goblin?
Yeah, and Kane on the beat
I-I fuck around and leave a nigga's brains on the street, oohh
Now, pop that pussy
I bring her to my bedroom and pop that pussy
Uh-huh, and we be steady mobbin'
Whoa, Kemosabe, big ballin' is my hobby