Yeah
 track
Nice and easy
Need this to be on, it's all and that
For you and yours, 
Settin' off like this, it's like this
Within the stars I connect the dots
Thoughts of the gods have-nots
My philosophy advanced to energy
Evokin' me a chance from my stance
Wax on, it's the out door material, word
Imperial, look like that charm in your cereal
A prize just stored off the boarder on the East Side
Somebody come and play
Hope your body get taken before the mess 
Wanna be master of the ceremony?
Got me cheesed 'cause the phony is all about emotion
Notion, I don't give a damn how much you got for promotion
You're headed upstream and the current quite strong
Thinkin' long range but your frequency was wrong
Once again, it's over
Another happy go lucky, leave the child's play to Chucky
Huh, check it
I've been here, I'm sayin', I'm talkin to you my man
I've been here, I'm sayin', I'm talkin to my fans
I've been here, I'm sayin', the mess is comin' through
The mess is comin' through, Thrust on the 1-2, check it
I've been here, I'm sayin', I walk in my 
I'm stayin', I'm comin' through like social
I've been here, I'm sayin', this is how we represent
This shit is like heaven sent, now check it
Blood on your shoulder, my thoughts move boulder's debris
Side Top Street, here's the pesticide, step aside
Where it's warm, I attack like swarm
People dead, stomp 'em
It's the Galactica from the star
See your metro got more converse than the station
I hold the clutch, shift the gears, decloak appear
Opposite fear, it's like this
Swing, miss, I focus like a laser
No method or thought can save ya
I intend to keep it real for those who like thoughts
Be sold, behold under the rag, a Blitzkrieg show
My satellite input data make your teeth chatter
Talk about the matter, now what's the matter?
What's the matter?
I've been here, I'm sayin', I'm talkin to my peeps
I've been here, I'm sayin', play that in your Jeeps
I've been here, I'm sayin', my niggas know the real
I've been here, I'm sayin', I come with mass appeal
I've been here, I'm sayin', I freak it on the track
The niggas from TO, check it out, they got me back
Yo I be the Thrust comin' through with the locomotion
Comin' through smooth, solid like the ocean
I never tried to write a hit, inspiration
My creation, facts upon facts down like basin
Now tell me who you chasin' on the case like mason
Notorious at night, the ever thinkin'
It's quicksand, you're sinkin', you're sinkin'!
While you be pretty in pink, no essence overflow
Who's the loser beggar of a chooser?
I'm the tropical, topical Toronto livin' real
Even the stage with the seal
Understandin' this concept to be correct
You can say that I'm hittin' on the set
Now I've been here, I'm sayin', understand
Been here, I'm sayin', talkin' to you my man, my man
When I'm comin' through it's like this
Represent Toronto comin' through
Separate, disappear like this miss that night
Call me the fall, I'm comin' through, I'm takin' charge
Been here, I'm sayin', this is how it go
Represent the real when we come to drop the flow
Huh, yeah, yeah...
It's like that, it's like that...
On the track, on the track...
We all ...
Comin' through with effect, with effect...
My man Scam, my man Scam...
My man 
Yo, 4-5-7, 4-5-7...
Nas-T Howie, Nas-T Howie...
Ghetto concept, ghetto concept...
We're on the roam, we're on the roam...
This goes for your dome, take it home baby, take it home baby...
You know how we do it like this, check it out, check it out...